classes/class_resourceuid.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/ResourceUID.xml.

.. _class_ResourceUID:

ResourceUID
===========

**Inherits:** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A singleton that manages the unique identifiers of all resources within a project.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Resource UIDs (Unique IDentifiers) allow the engine to keep references between resources intact, even if files can renamed or moved. They can be accessed with ``uid://``.

\ **ResourceUID** keeps track of all registered resource UIDs in a project, generates new UIDs, and converts between their string and integer representations.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                      | :ref:`add_id<class_ResourceUID_method_add_id>`\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`       | :ref:`create_id<class_ResourceUID_method_create_id>`\ (\ )                                                           |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`get_id_path<class_ResourceUID_method_get_id_path>`\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const|                   |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`     | :ref:`has_id<class_ResourceUID_method_has_id>`\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const|                             |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`id_to_text<class_ResourceUID_method_id_to_text>`\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const|                     |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                      | :ref:`remove_id<class_ResourceUID_method_remove_id>`\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )                               |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                      | :ref:`set_id<class_ResourceUID_method_set_id>`\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`       | :ref:`text_to_id<class_ResourceUID_method_text_to_id>`\ (\ text_id\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) |const|          |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Constants
---------

.. _class_ResourceUID_constant_INVALID_ID:

.. rst-class:: classref-constant

**INVALID_ID** = ``-1`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_constant_INVALID_ID>`

The value to use for an invalid UID, for example if the resource could not be loaded.

Its text representation is ``uid://<invalid>``.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_add_id:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **add_id**\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_add_id>`

Adds a new UID value which is mapped to the given resource path.

Fails with an error if the UID already exists, so be sure to check :ref:`has_id<class_ResourceUID_method_has_id>` beforehand, or use :ref:`set_id<class_ResourceUID_method_set_id>` instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_create_id:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **create_id**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_create_id>`

Generates a random resource UID which is guaranteed to be unique within the list of currently loaded UIDs.

In order for this UID to be registered, you must call :ref:`add_id<class_ResourceUID_method_add_id>` or :ref:`set_id<class_ResourceUID_method_set_id>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_get_id_path:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`String<class_String>` **get_id_path**\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_get_id_path>`

Returns the path that the given UID value refers to.

Fails with an error if the UID does not exist, so be sure to check :ref:`has_id<class_ResourceUID_method_has_id>` beforehand.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_has_id:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_id**\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_has_id>`

Returns whether the given UID value is known to the cache.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_id_to_text:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`String<class_String>` **id_to_text**\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_id_to_text>`

Converts the given UID to a ``uid://`` string value.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_remove_id:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **remove_id**\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_remove_id>`

Removes a loaded UID value from the cache.

Fails with an error if the UID does not exist, so be sure to check :ref:`has_id<class_ResourceUID_method_has_id>` beforehand.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_set_id:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **set_id**\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_set_id>`

Updates the resource path of an existing UID.

Fails with an error if the UID does not exist, so be sure to check :ref:`has_id<class_ResourceUID_method_has_id>` beforehand, or use :ref:`add_id<class_ResourceUID_method_add_id>` instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_text_to_id:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **text_to_id**\ (\ text_id\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_text_to_id>`

Extracts the UID value from the given ``uid://`` string.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (19bb187)

classes/class_resourceuid.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/ResourceUID.xml.

.. _class_ResourceUID:

ResourceUID
===========

**Inherits:** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A singleton that manages the unique identifiers of all resources within a project.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Resource UIDs (Unique IDentifiers) allow the engine to keep references between resources intact, even if files are renamed or moved. They can be accessed with ``uid://``.

\ **ResourceUID** keeps track of all registered resource UIDs in a project, generates new UIDs, and converts between their string and integer representations.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                      | :ref:`add_id<class_ResourceUID_method_add_id>`\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`       | :ref:`create_id<class_ResourceUID_method_create_id>`\ (\ )                                                           |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`       | :ref:`create_id_for_path<class_ResourceUID_method_create_id_for_path>`\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )     |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`get_id_path<class_ResourceUID_method_get_id_path>`\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const|                   |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`     | :ref:`has_id<class_ResourceUID_method_has_id>`\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const|                             |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>` | :ref:`id_to_text<class_ResourceUID_method_id_to_text>`\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const|                     |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                      | :ref:`remove_id<class_ResourceUID_method_remove_id>`\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )                               |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                      | :ref:`set_id<class_ResourceUID_method_set_id>`\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`       | :ref:`text_to_id<class_ResourceUID_method_text_to_id>`\ (\ text_id\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) |const|          |
   +-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Constants
---------

.. _class_ResourceUID_constant_INVALID_ID:

.. rst-class:: classref-constant

**INVALID_ID** = ``-1`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_constant_INVALID_ID>`

The value to use for an invalid UID, for example if the resource could not be loaded.

Its text representation is ``uid://<invalid>``.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_add_id:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **add_id**\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_add_id>`

Adds a new UID value which is mapped to the given resource path.

Fails with an error if the UID already exists, so be sure to check :ref:`has_id()<class_ResourceUID_method_has_id>` beforehand, or use :ref:`set_id()<class_ResourceUID_method_set_id>` instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_create_id:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **create_id**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_create_id>`

Generates a random resource UID which is guaranteed to be unique within the list of currently loaded UIDs.

In order for this UID to be registered, you must call :ref:`add_id()<class_ResourceUID_method_add_id>` or :ref:`set_id()<class_ResourceUID_method_set_id>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_create_id_for_path:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **create_id_for_path**\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_create_id_for_path>`

Like :ref:`create_id()<class_ResourceUID_method_create_id>`, but the UID is seeded with the provided ``path`` and project name. UIDs generated for that path will be always the same within the current project.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_get_id_path:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`String<class_String>` **get_id_path**\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_get_id_path>`

Returns the path that the given UID value refers to.

Fails with an error if the UID does not exist, so be sure to check :ref:`has_id()<class_ResourceUID_method_has_id>` beforehand.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_has_id:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_id**\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_has_id>`

Returns whether the given UID value is known to the cache.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_id_to_text:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`String<class_String>` **id_to_text**\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_id_to_text>`

Converts the given UID to a ``uid://`` string value.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_remove_id:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **remove_id**\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_remove_id>`

Removes a loaded UID value from the cache.

Fails with an error if the UID does not exist, so be sure to check :ref:`has_id()<class_ResourceUID_method_has_id>` beforehand.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_set_id:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **set_id**\ (\ id\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_set_id>`

Updates the resource path of an existing UID.

Fails with an error if the UID does not exist, so be sure to check :ref:`has_id()<class_ResourceUID_method_has_id>` beforehand, or use :ref:`add_id()<class_ResourceUID_method_add_id>` instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceUID_method_text_to_id:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`int<class_int>` **text_to_id**\ (\ text_id\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceUID_method_text_to_id>`

Extracts the UID value from the given ``uid://`` string.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
