classes/class_editorselection.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/EditorSelection.xml.

.. _class_EditorSelection:

EditorSelection
===============

**Inherits:** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Manages the SceneTree selection in the editor.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

This object manages the SceneTree selection in the editor.

\ **Note:** This class shouldn't be instantiated directly. Instead, access the singleton using :ref:`EditorInterface.get_selection<class_EditorInterface_method_get_selection>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                               | :ref:`add_node<class_EditorSelection_method_add_node>`\ (\ node\: :ref:`Node<class_Node>`\ )                 |
   +------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                               | :ref:`clear<class_EditorSelection_method_clear>`\ (\ )                                                       |
   +------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`Node<class_Node>`\] | :ref:`get_selected_nodes<class_EditorSelection_method_get_selected_nodes>`\ (\ )                             |
   +------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`Node<class_Node>`\] | :ref:`get_transformable_selected_nodes<class_EditorSelection_method_get_transformable_selected_nodes>`\ (\ ) |
   +------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                               | :ref:`remove_node<class_EditorSelection_method_remove_node>`\ (\ node\: :ref:`Node<class_Node>`\ )           |
   +------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_EditorSelection_signal_selection_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**selection_changed**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorSelection_signal_selection_changed>`

Emitted when the selection changes.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_EditorSelection_method_add_node:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **add_node**\ (\ node\: :ref:`Node<class_Node>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorSelection_method_add_node>`

Adds a node to the selection.

\ **Note:** The newly selected node will not be automatically edited in the inspector. If you want to edit a node, use :ref:`EditorInterface.edit_node<class_EditorInterface_method_edit_node>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorSelection_method_clear:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **clear**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorSelection_method_clear>`

Clear the selection.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorSelection_method_get_selected_nodes:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`Node<class_Node>`\] **get_selected_nodes**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorSelection_method_get_selected_nodes>`

Returns the list of selected nodes.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorSelection_method_get_transformable_selected_nodes:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`Node<class_Node>`\] **get_transformable_selected_nodes**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorSelection_method_get_transformable_selected_nodes>`

Returns the list of selected nodes, optimized for transform operations (i.e. moving them, rotating, etc.). This list can be used to avoid situations where a node is selected and is also a child/grandchild.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorSelection_method_remove_node:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **remove_node**\ (\ node\: :ref:`Node<class_Node>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorSelection_method_remove_node>`

Removes a node from the selection.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (4b36c04)

classes/class_editorselection.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/EditorSelection.xml.

.. _class_EditorSelection:

EditorSelection
===============

**Inherits:** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Manages the SceneTree selection in the editor.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

This object manages the SceneTree selection in the editor.

\ **Note:** This class shouldn't be instantiated directly. Instead, access the singleton using :ref:`EditorInterface.get_selection()<class_EditorInterface_method_get_selection>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                               | :ref:`add_node<class_EditorSelection_method_add_node>`\ (\ node\: :ref:`Node<class_Node>`\ )                 |
   +------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                               | :ref:`clear<class_EditorSelection_method_clear>`\ (\ )                                                       |
   +------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`Node<class_Node>`\] | :ref:`get_selected_nodes<class_EditorSelection_method_get_selected_nodes>`\ (\ )                             |
   +------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`Node<class_Node>`\] | :ref:`get_top_selected_nodes<class_EditorSelection_method_get_top_selected_nodes>`\ (\ )                     |
   +------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`Node<class_Node>`\] | :ref:`get_transformable_selected_nodes<class_EditorSelection_method_get_transformable_selected_nodes>`\ (\ ) |
   +------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                               | :ref:`remove_node<class_EditorSelection_method_remove_node>`\ (\ node\: :ref:`Node<class_Node>`\ )           |
   +------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_EditorSelection_signal_selection_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**selection_changed**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorSelection_signal_selection_changed>`

Emitted when the selection changes.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_EditorSelection_method_add_node:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **add_node**\ (\ node\: :ref:`Node<class_Node>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorSelection_method_add_node>`

Adds a node to the selection.

\ **Note:** The newly selected node will not be automatically edited in the inspector. If you want to edit a node, use :ref:`EditorInterface.edit_node()<class_EditorInterface_method_edit_node>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorSelection_method_clear:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **clear**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorSelection_method_clear>`

Clear the selection.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorSelection_method_get_selected_nodes:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`Node<class_Node>`\] **get_selected_nodes**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorSelection_method_get_selected_nodes>`

Returns the list of selected nodes.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorSelection_method_get_top_selected_nodes:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`Node<class_Node>`\] **get_top_selected_nodes**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorSelection_method_get_top_selected_nodes>`

Returns the list of top selected nodes only, excluding any children. This is useful for performing transform operations (moving them, rotating, etc.).

For example, if there is a node A with a child B and a sibling C, then selecting all three will cause this method to return only A and C. Changing the global transform of A will affect the global transform of B, so there is no need to change B separately.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorSelection_method_get_transformable_selected_nodes:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`Node<class_Node>`\] **get_transformable_selected_nodes**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorSelection_method_get_transformable_selected_nodes>`

**Deprecated:** Use :ref:`get_top_selected_nodes()<class_EditorSelection_method_get_top_selected_nodes>` instead.

Returns the list of top selected nodes only, excluding any children. This is useful for performing transform operations (moving them, rotating, etc.). See :ref:`get_top_selected_nodes()<class_EditorSelection_method_get_top_selected_nodes>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_EditorSelection_method_remove_node:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **remove_node**\ (\ node\: :ref:`Node<class_Node>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_EditorSelection_method_remove_node>`

Removes a node from the selection.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
