classes/class_zippacker.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/modules/zip/doc_classes/ZIPPacker.xml.

.. _class_ZIPPacker:

ZIPPacker
=========

**Inherits:** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Allows the creation of zip files.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

This class implements a writer that allows storing the multiple blobs in a zip archive.

::

    func write_zip_file():
        var writer := ZIPPacker.new()
        var err := writer.open("user://archive.zip")
        if err != OK:
            return err
        writer.start_file("hello.txt")
        writer.write_file("Hello World".to_utf8_buffer())
        writer.close_file()
    
        writer.close()
        return OK

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`close<class_ZIPPacker_method_close>`\ (\ )                                                                                            |
   +---------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`close_file<class_ZIPPacker_method_close_file>`\ (\ )                                                                                  |
   +---------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`open<class_ZIPPacker_method_open>`\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, append\: :ref:`ZipAppend<enum_ZIPPacker_ZipAppend>` = 0\ ) |
   +---------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`start_file<class_ZIPPacker_method_start_file>`\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )                                              |
   +---------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`write_file<class_ZIPPacker_method_write_file>`\ (\ data\: :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`\ )                            |
   +---------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_ZIPPacker_ZipAppend:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **ZipAppend**: :ref:`🔗<enum_ZIPPacker_ZipAppend>`

.. _class_ZIPPacker_constant_APPEND_CREATE:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`ZipAppend<enum_ZIPPacker_ZipAppend>` **APPEND_CREATE** = ``0``

Create a new zip archive at the given path.

.. _class_ZIPPacker_constant_APPEND_CREATEAFTER:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`ZipAppend<enum_ZIPPacker_ZipAppend>` **APPEND_CREATEAFTER** = ``1``

Append a new zip archive to the end of the already existing file at the given path.

.. _class_ZIPPacker_constant_APPEND_ADDINZIP:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`ZipAppend<enum_ZIPPacker_ZipAppend>` **APPEND_ADDINZIP** = ``2``

Add new files to the existing zip archive at the given path.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_ZIPPacker_method_close:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **close**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ZIPPacker_method_close>`

Closes the underlying resources used by this instance.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ZIPPacker_method_close_file:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **close_file**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ZIPPacker_method_close_file>`

Stops writing to a file within the archive.

It will fail if there is no open file.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ZIPPacker_method_open:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **open**\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, append\: :ref:`ZipAppend<enum_ZIPPacker_ZipAppend>` = 0\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ZIPPacker_method_open>`

Opens a zip file for writing at the given path using the specified write mode.

This must be called before everything else.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ZIPPacker_method_start_file:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **start_file**\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ZIPPacker_method_start_file>`

Starts writing to a file within the archive. Only one file can be written at the same time.

Must be called after :ref:`open<class_ZIPPacker_method_open>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ZIPPacker_method_write_file:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **write_file**\ (\ data\: :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ZIPPacker_method_write_file>`

Write the given ``data`` to the file.

Needs to be called after :ref:`start_file<class_ZIPPacker_method_start_file>`.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (e37c626)

classes/class_zippacker.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/modules/zip/doc_classes/ZIPPacker.xml.

.. _class_ZIPPacker:

ZIPPacker
=========

**Inherits:** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Allows the creation of ZIP files.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

This class implements a writer that allows storing the multiple blobs in a ZIP archive. See also :ref:`ZIPReader<class_ZIPReader>` and :ref:`PCKPacker<class_PCKPacker>`.

::

    # Create a ZIP archive with a single file at its root.
    func write_zip_file():
        var writer = ZIPPacker.new()
        var err = writer.open("user://archive.zip")
        if err != OK:
            return err
        writer.start_file("hello.txt")
        writer.write_file("Hello World".to_utf8_buffer())
        writer.close_file()
    
        writer.close()
        return OK

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`close<class_ZIPPacker_method_close>`\ (\ )                                                                                            |
   +---------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`close_file<class_ZIPPacker_method_close_file>`\ (\ )                                                                                  |
   +---------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`open<class_ZIPPacker_method_open>`\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, append\: :ref:`ZipAppend<enum_ZIPPacker_ZipAppend>` = 0\ ) |
   +---------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`start_file<class_ZIPPacker_method_start_file>`\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )                                              |
   +---------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`write_file<class_ZIPPacker_method_write_file>`\ (\ data\: :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`\ )                            |
   +---------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_ZIPPacker_ZipAppend:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **ZipAppend**: :ref:`🔗<enum_ZIPPacker_ZipAppend>`

.. _class_ZIPPacker_constant_APPEND_CREATE:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`ZipAppend<enum_ZIPPacker_ZipAppend>` **APPEND_CREATE** = ``0``

Create a new zip archive at the given path.

.. _class_ZIPPacker_constant_APPEND_CREATEAFTER:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`ZipAppend<enum_ZIPPacker_ZipAppend>` **APPEND_CREATEAFTER** = ``1``

Append a new zip archive to the end of the already existing file at the given path.

.. _class_ZIPPacker_constant_APPEND_ADDINZIP:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`ZipAppend<enum_ZIPPacker_ZipAppend>` **APPEND_ADDINZIP** = ``2``

Add new files to the existing zip archive at the given path.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_ZIPPacker_method_close:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **close**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ZIPPacker_method_close>`

Closes the underlying resources used by this instance.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ZIPPacker_method_close_file:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **close_file**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ZIPPacker_method_close_file>`

Stops writing to a file within the archive.

It will fail if there is no open file.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ZIPPacker_method_open:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **open**\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, append\: :ref:`ZipAppend<enum_ZIPPacker_ZipAppend>` = 0\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ZIPPacker_method_open>`

Opens a zip file for writing at the given path using the specified write mode.

This must be called before everything else.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ZIPPacker_method_start_file:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **start_file**\ (\ path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ZIPPacker_method_start_file>`

Starts writing to a file within the archive. Only one file can be written at the same time.

Must be called after :ref:`open()<class_ZIPPacker_method_open>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ZIPPacker_method_write_file:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **write_file**\ (\ data\: :ref:`PackedByteArray<class_PackedByteArray>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ZIPPacker_method_write_file>`

Write the given ``data`` to the file.

Needs to be called after :ref:`start_file()<class_ZIPPacker_method_start_file>`.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
