classes/class_subviewportcontainer.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/SubViewportContainer.xml.

.. _class_SubViewportContainer:

SubViewportContainer
====================

**Inherits:** :ref:`Container<class_Container>` **<** :ref:`Control<class_Control>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A container used for displaying the contents of a :ref:`SubViewport<class_SubViewport>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A container that displays the contents of underlying :ref:`SubViewport<class_SubViewport>` child nodes. It uses the combined size of the :ref:`SubViewport<class_SubViewport>`\ s as minimum size, unless :ref:`stretch<class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch>` is enabled.

\ **Note:** Changing a **SubViewportContainer**'s :ref:`Control.scale<class_Control_property_scale>` will cause its contents to appear distorted. To change its visual size without causing distortion, adjust the node's margins instead (if it's not already in a container).

\ **Note:** The **SubViewportContainer** forwards mouse-enter and mouse-exit notifications to its sub-viewports.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`FocusMode<enum_Control_FocusMode>` | focus_mode                                                                | ``1`` (overrides :ref:`Control<class_Control_property_focus_mode>`) |
   +------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                  | :ref:`stretch<class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch>`               | ``false``                                                           |
   +------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                    | :ref:`stretch_shrink<class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch_shrink>` | ``1``                                                               |
   +------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>` | :ref:`_propagate_input_event<class_SubViewportContainer_private_method__propagate_input_event>`\ (\ event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ ) |virtual| |const| |
   +-------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **stretch** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stretch**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_stretch_enabled**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the sub-viewport will be automatically resized to the control's size.

\ **Note:** If ``true``, this will prohibit changing :ref:`SubViewport.size<class_SubViewport_property_size>` of its children manually.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch_shrink:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **stretch_shrink** = ``1`` :ref:`🔗<class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch_shrink>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stretch_shrink**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_stretch_shrink**\ (\ )

Divides the sub-viewport's effective resolution by this value while preserving its scale. This can be used to speed up rendering.

For example, a 1280×720 sub-viewport with :ref:`stretch_shrink<class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch_shrink>` set to ``2`` will be rendered at 640×360 while occupying the same size in the container.

\ **Note:** :ref:`stretch<class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch>` must be ``true`` for this property to work.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_SubViewportContainer_private_method__propagate_input_event:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **_propagate_input_event**\ (\ event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ ) |virtual| |const| :ref:`🔗<class_SubViewportContainer_private_method__propagate_input_event>`

**Experimental:** This method may be changed or removed in future versions.

Virtual method to be implemented by the user. If it returns ``true``, the ``event`` is propagated to :ref:`SubViewport<class_SubViewport>` children. Propagation doesn't happen if it returns ``false``. If the function is not implemented, all events are propagated to SubViewports.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (0c45ace)

classes/class_subviewportcontainer.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/SubViewportContainer.xml.

.. _class_SubViewportContainer:

SubViewportContainer
====================

**Inherits:** :ref:`Container<class_Container>` **<** :ref:`Control<class_Control>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A container used for displaying the contents of a :ref:`SubViewport<class_SubViewport>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

A container that displays the contents of underlying :ref:`SubViewport<class_SubViewport>` child nodes. It uses the combined size of the :ref:`SubViewport<class_SubViewport>`\ s as minimum size, unless :ref:`stretch<class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch>` is enabled.

\ **Note:** Changing a **SubViewportContainer**'s :ref:`Control.scale<class_Control_property_scale>` will cause its contents to appear distorted. To change its visual size without causing distortion, adjust the node's margins instead (if it's not already in a container).

\ **Note:** The **SubViewportContainer** forwards mouse-enter and mouse-exit notifications to its sub-viewports.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                  | :ref:`consume_drag_and_drop<class_SubViewportContainer_property_consume_drag_and_drop>` | ``false``                                                           |
   +------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`FocusMode<enum_Control_FocusMode>` | focus_mode                                                                              | ``1`` (overrides :ref:`Control<class_Control_property_focus_mode>`) |
   +------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                  | :ref:`stretch<class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch>`                             | ``false``                                                           |
   +------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                    | :ref:`stretch_shrink<class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch_shrink>`               | ``1``                                                               |
   +------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>` | :ref:`_propagate_input_event<class_SubViewportContainer_private_method__propagate_input_event>`\ (\ event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ ) |virtual| |const| |
   +-------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_SubViewportContainer_property_consume_drag_and_drop:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **consume_drag_and_drop** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_SubViewportContainer_property_consume_drag_and_drop>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_consume_drag_and_drop**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_consume_drag_and_drop_enabled**\ (\ )

If ``false``, the **SubViewportContainer** is not available as a drop target in drag-and-drop operations, and instead the :ref:`Control<class_Control>` nodes inside its :ref:`Viewport<class_Viewport>` children are potential drop targets.

If ``true``, the **SubViewportContainer** itself will be considered as a drop target in drag-and-drop operations, preventing the :ref:`Control<class_Control>` nodes inside its :ref:`Viewport<class_Viewport>` children from becoming drop targets.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **stretch** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stretch**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_stretch_enabled**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the sub-viewport will be automatically resized to the control's size.

\ **Note:** If ``true``, this will prohibit changing :ref:`SubViewport.size<class_SubViewport_property_size>` of its children manually.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch_shrink:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **stretch_shrink** = ``1`` :ref:`🔗<class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch_shrink>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stretch_shrink**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_stretch_shrink**\ (\ )

Divides the sub-viewport's effective resolution by this value while preserving its scale. This can be used to speed up rendering.

For example, a 1280×720 sub-viewport with :ref:`stretch_shrink<class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch_shrink>` set to ``2`` will be rendered at 640×360 while occupying the same size in the container.

\ **Note:** :ref:`stretch<class_SubViewportContainer_property_stretch>` must be ``true`` for this property to work.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_SubViewportContainer_private_method__propagate_input_event:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **_propagate_input_event**\ (\ event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ ) |virtual| |const| :ref:`🔗<class_SubViewportContainer_private_method__propagate_input_event>`

**Experimental:** This method may be changed or removed in future versions.

Virtual method to be implemented by the user. If it returns ``true``, the ``event`` is propagated to :ref:`SubViewport<class_SubViewport>` children. Propagation doesn't happen if it returns ``false``. If the function is not implemented, all events are propagated to SubViewports.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
