classes/class_charfxtransform.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/CharFXTransform.xml.

.. _class_CharFXTransform:

CharFXTransform
===============

**Inherits:** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Controls how an individual character will be displayed in a :ref:`RichTextEffect<class_RichTextEffect>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

By setting various properties on this object, you can control how individual characters will be displayed in a :ref:`RichTextEffect<class_RichTextEffect>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`BBCode in RichTextLabel <../tutorials/ui/bbcode_in_richtextlabel>`

- `RichTextEffect test project (third-party) <https://github.com/Eoin-ONeill-Yokai/Godot-Rich-Text-Effect-Test-Project>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Color<class_Color>`             | :ref:`color<class_CharFXTransform_property_color>`                   | ``Color(0, 0, 0, 1)``             |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`             | :ref:`elapsed_time<class_CharFXTransform_property_elapsed_time>`     | ``0.0``                           |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`   | :ref:`env<class_CharFXTransform_property_env>`                       | ``{}``                            |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`RID<class_RID>`                 | :ref:`font<class_CharFXTransform_property_font>`                     | ``RID()``                         |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                 | :ref:`glyph_count<class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_count>`       | ``0``                             |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                 | :ref:`glyph_flags<class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_flags>`       | ``0``                             |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                 | :ref:`glyph_index<class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_index>`       | ``0``                             |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>`         | :ref:`offset<class_CharFXTransform_property_offset>`                 | ``Vector2(0, 0)``                 |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`               | :ref:`outline<class_CharFXTransform_property_outline>`               | ``false``                         |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Vector2i<class_Vector2i>`       | :ref:`range<class_CharFXTransform_property_range>`                   | ``Vector2i(0, 0)``                |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                 | :ref:`relative_index<class_CharFXTransform_property_relative_index>` | ``0``                             |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` | :ref:`transform<class_CharFXTransform_property_transform>`           | ``Transform2D(1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0)`` |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`               | :ref:`visible<class_CharFXTransform_property_visible>`               | ``true``                          |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_color:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Color<class_Color>` **color** = ``Color(0, 0, 0, 1)`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_color>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_color**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Color<class_Color>`\ )
- :ref:`Color<class_Color>` **get_color**\ (\ )

The color the character will be drawn with.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_elapsed_time:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **elapsed_time** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_elapsed_time>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_elapsed_time**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_elapsed_time**\ (\ )

The time elapsed since the :ref:`RichTextLabel<class_RichTextLabel>` was added to the scene tree (in seconds). Time stops when the :ref:`RichTextLabel<class_RichTextLabel>` is paused (see :ref:`Node.process_mode<class_Node_property_process_mode>`). Resets when the text in the :ref:`RichTextLabel<class_RichTextLabel>` is changed.

\ **Note:** Time still passes while the :ref:`RichTextLabel<class_RichTextLabel>` is hidden.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_env:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` **env** = ``{}`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_env>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_environment**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`\ )
- :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` **get_environment**\ (\ )

Contains the arguments passed in the opening BBCode tag. By default, arguments are strings; if their contents match a type such as :ref:`bool<class_bool>`, :ref:`int<class_int>` or :ref:`float<class_float>`, they will be converted automatically. Color codes in the form ``#rrggbb`` or ``#rgb`` will be converted to an opaque :ref:`Color<class_Color>`. String arguments may not contain spaces, even if they're quoted. If present, quotes will also be present in the final string.

For example, the opening BBCode tag ``[example foo=hello bar=true baz=42 color=#ffffff]`` will map to the following :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`:

::

    {"foo": "hello", "bar": true, "baz": 42, "color": Color(1, 1, 1, 1)}

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_font:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`RID<class_RID>` **font** = ``RID()`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_font>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_font**\ (\ value\: :ref:`RID<class_RID>`\ )
- :ref:`RID<class_RID>` **get_font**\ (\ )

Font resource used to render glyph.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_count:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **glyph_count** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_count>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_glyph_count**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_glyph_count**\ (\ )

Number of glyphs in the grapheme cluster. This value is set in the first glyph of a cluster. Setting this property won't affect drawing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_flags:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **glyph_flags** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_flags>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_glyph_flags**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_glyph_flags**\ (\ )

Glyph flags. See :ref:`GraphemeFlag<enum_TextServer_GraphemeFlag>` for more info. Setting this property won't affect drawing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_index:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **glyph_index** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_index>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_glyph_index**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_glyph_index**\ (\ )

Font specific glyph index.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_offset:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>` **offset** = ``Vector2(0, 0)`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_offset>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_offset**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>`\ )
- :ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>` **get_offset**\ (\ )

The position offset the character will be drawn with (in pixels).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_outline:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **outline** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_outline>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_outline**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_outline**\ (\ )

If ``true``, FX transform is called for outline drawing. Setting this property won't affect drawing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_range:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Vector2i<class_Vector2i>` **range** = ``Vector2i(0, 0)`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_range>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_range**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Vector2i<class_Vector2i>`\ )
- :ref:`Vector2i<class_Vector2i>` **get_range**\ (\ )

Absolute character range in the string, corresponding to the glyph. Setting this property won't affect drawing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_relative_index:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **relative_index** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_relative_index>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_relative_index**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_relative_index**\ (\ )

The character offset of the glyph, relative to the current :ref:`RichTextEffect<class_RichTextEffect>` custom block. Setting this property won't affect drawing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_transform:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` **transform** = ``Transform2D(1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0)`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_transform>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_transform**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>`\ )
- :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` **get_transform**\ (\ )

The current transform of the current glyph. It can be overridden (for example, by driving the position and rotation from a curve). You can also alter the existing value to apply transforms on top of other effects.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_visible:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **visible** = ``true`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_visible>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_visibility**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_visible**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the character will be drawn. If ``false``, the character will be hidden. Characters around hidden characters will reflow to take the space of hidden characters. If this is not desired, set their :ref:`color<class_CharFXTransform_property_color>` to ``Color(1, 1, 1, 0)`` instead.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (96cdbbe)

classes/class_charfxtransform.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/CharFXTransform.xml.

.. _class_CharFXTransform:

CharFXTransform
===============

**Inherits:** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Controls how an individual character will be displayed in a :ref:`RichTextEffect<class_RichTextEffect>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

By setting various properties on this object, you can control how individual characters will be displayed in a :ref:`RichTextEffect<class_RichTextEffect>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`BBCode in RichTextLabel <../tutorials/ui/bbcode_in_richtextlabel>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Color<class_Color>`             | :ref:`color<class_CharFXTransform_property_color>`                   | ``Color(0, 0, 0, 1)``             |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`             | :ref:`elapsed_time<class_CharFXTransform_property_elapsed_time>`     | ``0.0``                           |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`   | :ref:`env<class_CharFXTransform_property_env>`                       | ``{}``                            |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`RID<class_RID>`                 | :ref:`font<class_CharFXTransform_property_font>`                     | ``RID()``                         |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                 | :ref:`glyph_count<class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_count>`       | ``0``                             |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                 | :ref:`glyph_flags<class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_flags>`       | ``0``                             |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                 | :ref:`glyph_index<class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_index>`       | ``0``                             |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>`         | :ref:`offset<class_CharFXTransform_property_offset>`                 | ``Vector2(0, 0)``                 |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`               | :ref:`outline<class_CharFXTransform_property_outline>`               | ``false``                         |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Vector2i<class_Vector2i>`       | :ref:`range<class_CharFXTransform_property_range>`                   | ``Vector2i(0, 0)``                |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                 | :ref:`relative_index<class_CharFXTransform_property_relative_index>` | ``0``                             |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` | :ref:`transform<class_CharFXTransform_property_transform>`           | ``Transform2D(1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0)`` |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`               | :ref:`visible<class_CharFXTransform_property_visible>`               | ``true``                          |
   +---------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_color:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Color<class_Color>` **color** = ``Color(0, 0, 0, 1)`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_color>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_color**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Color<class_Color>`\ )
- :ref:`Color<class_Color>` **get_color**\ (\ )

The color the character will be drawn with.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_elapsed_time:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **elapsed_time** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_elapsed_time>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_elapsed_time**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_elapsed_time**\ (\ )

The time elapsed since the :ref:`RichTextLabel<class_RichTextLabel>` was added to the scene tree (in seconds). Time stops when the :ref:`RichTextLabel<class_RichTextLabel>` is paused (see :ref:`Node.process_mode<class_Node_property_process_mode>`). Resets when the text in the :ref:`RichTextLabel<class_RichTextLabel>` is changed.

\ **Note:** Time still passes while the :ref:`RichTextLabel<class_RichTextLabel>` is hidden.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_env:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` **env** = ``{}`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_env>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_environment**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`\ )
- :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>` **get_environment**\ (\ )

Contains the arguments passed in the opening BBCode tag. By default, arguments are strings; if their contents match a type such as :ref:`bool<class_bool>`, :ref:`int<class_int>` or :ref:`float<class_float>`, they will be converted automatically. Color codes in the form ``#rrggbb`` or ``#rgb`` will be converted to an opaque :ref:`Color<class_Color>`. String arguments may not contain spaces, even if they're quoted. If present, quotes will also be present in the final string.

For example, the opening BBCode tag ``[example foo=hello bar=true baz=42 color=#ffffff]`` will map to the following :ref:`Dictionary<class_Dictionary>`:

::

    {"foo": "hello", "bar": true, "baz": 42, "color": Color(1, 1, 1, 1)}

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_font:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`RID<class_RID>` **font** = ``RID()`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_font>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_font**\ (\ value\: :ref:`RID<class_RID>`\ )
- :ref:`RID<class_RID>` **get_font**\ (\ )

:ref:`TextServer<class_TextServer>` RID of the font used to render glyph, this value can be used with ``TextServer.font_*`` methods to retrieve font information.

\ **Note:** Read-only. Setting this property won't affect drawing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_count:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **glyph_count** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_count>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_glyph_count**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_glyph_count**\ (\ )

Number of glyphs in the grapheme cluster. This value is set in the first glyph of a cluster.

\ **Note:** Read-only. Setting this property won't affect drawing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_flags:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **glyph_flags** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_flags>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_glyph_flags**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_glyph_flags**\ (\ )

Glyph flags. See :ref:`GraphemeFlag<enum_TextServer_GraphemeFlag>` for more info.

\ **Note:** Read-only. Setting this property won't affect drawing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_index:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **glyph_index** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_glyph_index>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_glyph_index**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_glyph_index**\ (\ )

Glyph index specific to the :ref:`font<class_CharFXTransform_property_font>`. If you want to replace this glyph, use :ref:`TextServer.font_get_glyph_index()<class_TextServer_method_font_get_glyph_index>` with :ref:`font<class_CharFXTransform_property_font>` to get a new glyph index for a single character.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_offset:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>` **offset** = ``Vector2(0, 0)`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_offset>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_offset**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>`\ )
- :ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>` **get_offset**\ (\ )

The position offset the character will be drawn with (in pixels).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_outline:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **outline** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_outline>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_outline**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_outline**\ (\ )

If ``true``, FX transform is called for outline drawing.

\ **Note:** Read-only. Setting this property won't affect drawing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_range:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Vector2i<class_Vector2i>` **range** = ``Vector2i(0, 0)`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_range>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_range**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Vector2i<class_Vector2i>`\ )
- :ref:`Vector2i<class_Vector2i>` **get_range**\ (\ )

Absolute character range in the string, corresponding to the glyph.

\ **Note:** Read-only. Setting this property won't affect drawing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_relative_index:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **relative_index** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_relative_index>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_relative_index**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_relative_index**\ (\ )

The character offset of the glyph, relative to the current :ref:`RichTextEffect<class_RichTextEffect>` custom block.

\ **Note:** Read-only. Setting this property won't affect drawing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_transform:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` **transform** = ``Transform2D(1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0)`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_transform>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_transform**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>`\ )
- :ref:`Transform2D<class_Transform2D>` **get_transform**\ (\ )

The current transform of the current glyph. It can be overridden (for example, by driving the position and rotation from a curve). You can also alter the existing value to apply transforms on top of other effects.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_CharFXTransform_property_visible:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **visible** = ``true`` :ref:`🔗<class_CharFXTransform_property_visible>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_visibility**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_visible**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the character will be drawn. If ``false``, the character will be hidden. Characters around hidden characters will reflow to take the space of hidden characters. If this is not desired, set their :ref:`color<class_CharFXTransform_property_color>` to ``Color(1, 1, 1, 0)`` instead.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
