classes/class_animatedsprite3d.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/AnimatedSprite3D.xml.

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D:

AnimatedSprite3D
================

**Inherits:** :ref:`SpriteBase3D<class_SpriteBase3D>` **<** :ref:`GeometryInstance3D<class_GeometryInstance3D>` **<** :ref:`VisualInstance3D<class_VisualInstance3D>` **<** :ref:`Node3D<class_Node3D>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

2D sprite node in 3D world, that can use multiple 2D textures for animation.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

**AnimatedSprite3D** is similar to the :ref:`Sprite3D<class_Sprite3D>` node, except it carries multiple textures as animation :ref:`sprite_frames<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_sprite_frames>`. Animations are created using a :ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>` resource, which allows you to import image files (or a folder containing said files) to provide the animation frames for the sprite. The :ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>` resource can be configured in the editor via the SpriteFrames bottom panel.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`2D Sprite animation (also applies to 3D) <../tutorials/2d/2d_sprite_animation>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+
   | :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`     | :ref:`animation<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_animation>`           | ``&"default"`` |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>`             | :ref:`autoplay<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_autoplay>`             | ``""``         |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                   | :ref:`frame<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame>`                   | ``0``          |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`               | :ref:`frame_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress>` | ``0.0``        |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`               | :ref:`speed_scale<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_speed_scale>`       | ``1.0``        |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+
   | :ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>` | :ref:`sprite_frames<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_sprite_frames>`   |                |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`get_playing_speed<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_get_playing_speed>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                             |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`   | :ref:`is_playing<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_is_playing>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                           |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                    | :ref:`pause<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_pause>`\ (\ )                                                                                                                                             |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                    | :ref:`play<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play>`\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` = &"", custom_speed\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 1.0, from_end\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                    | :ref:`play_backwards<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play_backwards>`\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` = &""\ )                                                                         |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                    | :ref:`set_frame_and_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_set_frame_and_progress>`\ (\ frame\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, progress\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )                                      |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                    | :ref:`stop<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_stop>`\ (\ )                                                                                                                                               |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_animation_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**animation_changed**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_animation_changed>`

Emitted when :ref:`animation<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_animation>` changes.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_animation_finished:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**animation_finished**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_animation_finished>`

Emitted when the animation reaches the end, or the start if it is played in reverse. When the animation finishes, it pauses the playback.

\ **Note:** This signal is not emitted if an animation is looping.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_animation_looped:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**animation_looped**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_animation_looped>`

Emitted when the animation loops.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_frame_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**frame_changed**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_frame_changed>`

Emitted when :ref:`frame<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame>` changes.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_sprite_frames_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**sprite_frames_changed**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_sprite_frames_changed>`

Emitted when :ref:`sprite_frames<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_sprite_frames>` changes.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_animation:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **animation** = ``&"default"`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_animation>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_animation**\ (\ value\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )
- :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **get_animation**\ (\ )

The current animation from the :ref:`sprite_frames<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_sprite_frames>` resource. If this value is changed, the :ref:`frame<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame>` counter and the :ref:`frame_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress>` are reset.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_autoplay:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **autoplay** = ``""`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_autoplay>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_autoplay**\ (\ value\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )
- :ref:`String<class_String>` **get_autoplay**\ (\ )

The key of the animation to play when the scene loads.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **frame** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_frame**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_frame**\ (\ )

The displayed animation frame's index. Setting this property also resets :ref:`frame_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress>`. If this is not desired, use :ref:`set_frame_and_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_set_frame_and_progress>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **frame_progress** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_frame_progress**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_frame_progress**\ (\ )

The progress value between ``0.0`` and ``1.0`` until the current frame transitions to the next frame. If the animation is playing backwards, the value transitions from ``1.0`` to ``0.0``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_speed_scale:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **speed_scale** = ``1.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_speed_scale>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_speed_scale**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_speed_scale**\ (\ )

The speed scaling ratio. For example, if this value is ``1``, then the animation plays at normal speed. If it's ``0.5``, then it plays at half speed. If it's ``2``, then it plays at double speed.

If set to a negative value, the animation is played in reverse. If set to ``0``, the animation will not advance.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_sprite_frames:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>` **sprite_frames** :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_sprite_frames>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_sprite_frames**\ (\ value\: :ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>`\ )
- :ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>` **get_sprite_frames**\ (\ )

The :ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>` resource containing the animation(s). Allows you the option to load, edit, clear, make unique and save the states of the :ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>` resource.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_get_playing_speed:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **get_playing_speed**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_get_playing_speed>`

Returns the actual playing speed of current animation or ``0`` if not playing. This speed is the :ref:`speed_scale<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_speed_scale>` property multiplied by ``custom_speed`` argument specified when calling the :ref:`play<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play>` method.

Returns a negative value if the current animation is playing backwards.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_is_playing:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_playing**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_is_playing>`

Returns ``true`` if an animation is currently playing (even if :ref:`speed_scale<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_speed_scale>` and/or ``custom_speed`` are ``0``).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_pause:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **pause**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_pause>`

Pauses the currently playing animation. The :ref:`frame<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame>` and :ref:`frame_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress>` will be kept and calling :ref:`play<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play>` or :ref:`play_backwards<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play_backwards>` without arguments will resume the animation from the current playback position.

See also :ref:`stop<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_stop>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **play**\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` = &"", custom_speed\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 1.0, from_end\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play>`

Plays the animation with key ``name``. If ``custom_speed`` is negative and ``from_end`` is ``true``, the animation will play backwards (which is equivalent to calling :ref:`play_backwards<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play_backwards>`).

If this method is called with that same animation ``name``, or with no ``name`` parameter, the assigned animation will resume playing if it was paused.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play_backwards:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **play_backwards**\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` = &""\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play_backwards>`

Plays the animation with key ``name`` in reverse.

This method is a shorthand for :ref:`play<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play>` with ``custom_speed = -1.0`` and ``from_end = true``, so see its description for more information.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_set_frame_and_progress:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **set_frame_and_progress**\ (\ frame\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, progress\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_set_frame_and_progress>`

The setter of :ref:`frame<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame>` resets the :ref:`frame_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress>` to ``0.0`` implicitly, but this method avoids that.

This is useful when you want to carry over the current :ref:`frame_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress>` to another :ref:`frame<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame>`.

\ **Example:**\ 


.. tabs::

 .. code-tab:: gdscript

    # Change the animation with keeping the frame index and progress.
    var current_frame = animated_sprite.get_frame()
    var current_progress = animated_sprite.get_frame_progress()
    animated_sprite.play("walk_another_skin")
    animated_sprite.set_frame_and_progress(current_frame, current_progress)



.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_stop:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **stop**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_stop>`

Stops the currently playing animation. The animation position is reset to ``0`` and the ``custom_speed`` is reset to ``1.0``. See also :ref:`pause<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_pause>`.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (aa8d9b8)

classes/class_animatedsprite3d.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/AnimatedSprite3D.xml.

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D:

AnimatedSprite3D
================

**Inherits:** :ref:`SpriteBase3D<class_SpriteBase3D>` **<** :ref:`GeometryInstance3D<class_GeometryInstance3D>` **<** :ref:`VisualInstance3D<class_VisualInstance3D>` **<** :ref:`Node3D<class_Node3D>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

2D sprite node in 3D world, that can use multiple 2D textures for animation.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

**AnimatedSprite3D** is similar to the :ref:`Sprite3D<class_Sprite3D>` node, except it carries multiple textures as animation :ref:`sprite_frames<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_sprite_frames>`. Animations are created using a :ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>` resource, which allows you to import image files (or a folder containing said files) to provide the animation frames for the sprite. The :ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>` resource can be configured in the editor via the SpriteFrames bottom panel.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`2D Sprite animation (also applies to 3D) <../tutorials/2d/2d_sprite_animation>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+
   | :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`     | :ref:`animation<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_animation>`           | ``&"default"`` |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>`             | :ref:`autoplay<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_autoplay>`             | ``""``         |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`                   | :ref:`frame<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame>`                   | ``0``          |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`               | :ref:`frame_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress>` | ``0.0``        |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`               | :ref:`speed_scale<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_speed_scale>`       | ``1.0``        |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+
   | :ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>` | :ref:`sprite_frames<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_sprite_frames>`   |                |
   +-----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`get_playing_speed<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_get_playing_speed>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                             |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`   | :ref:`is_playing<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_is_playing>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                                           |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                    | :ref:`pause<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_pause>`\ (\ )                                                                                                                                             |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                    | :ref:`play<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play>`\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` = &"", custom_speed\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 1.0, from_end\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                    | :ref:`play_backwards<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play_backwards>`\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` = &""\ )                                                                         |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                    | :ref:`set_frame_and_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_set_frame_and_progress>`\ (\ frame\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, progress\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )                                      |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                    | :ref:`stop<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_stop>`\ (\ )                                                                                                                                               |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_animation_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**animation_changed**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_animation_changed>`

Emitted when :ref:`animation<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_animation>` changes.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_animation_finished:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**animation_finished**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_animation_finished>`

Emitted when the animation reaches the end, or the start if it is played in reverse. When the animation finishes, it pauses the playback.

\ **Note:** This signal is not emitted if an animation is looping.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_animation_looped:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**animation_looped**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_animation_looped>`

Emitted when the animation loops.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_frame_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**frame_changed**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_frame_changed>`

Emitted when :ref:`frame<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame>` changes.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_sprite_frames_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**sprite_frames_changed**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_signal_sprite_frames_changed>`

Emitted when :ref:`sprite_frames<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_sprite_frames>` changes.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_animation:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **animation** = ``&"default"`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_animation>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_animation**\ (\ value\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )
- :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` **get_animation**\ (\ )

The current animation from the :ref:`sprite_frames<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_sprite_frames>` resource. If this value is changed, the :ref:`frame<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame>` counter and the :ref:`frame_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress>` are reset.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_autoplay:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`String<class_String>` **autoplay** = ``""`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_autoplay>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_autoplay**\ (\ value\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )
- :ref:`String<class_String>` **get_autoplay**\ (\ )

The key of the animation to play when the scene loads.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **frame** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_frame**\ (\ value\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )
- :ref:`int<class_int>` **get_frame**\ (\ )

The displayed animation frame's index. Setting this property also resets :ref:`frame_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress>`. If this is not desired, use :ref:`set_frame_and_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_set_frame_and_progress>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **frame_progress** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_frame_progress**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_frame_progress**\ (\ )

The progress value between ``0.0`` and ``1.0`` until the current frame transitions to the next frame. If the animation is playing backwards, the value transitions from ``1.0`` to ``0.0``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_speed_scale:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **speed_scale** = ``1.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_speed_scale>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_speed_scale**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_speed_scale**\ (\ )

The speed scaling ratio. For example, if this value is ``1``, then the animation plays at normal speed. If it's ``0.5``, then it plays at half speed. If it's ``2``, then it plays at double speed.

If set to a negative value, the animation is played in reverse. If set to ``0``, the animation will not advance.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_sprite_frames:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>` **sprite_frames** :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_sprite_frames>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_sprite_frames**\ (\ value\: :ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>`\ )
- :ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>` **get_sprite_frames**\ (\ )

The :ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>` resource containing the animation(s). Allows you the option to load, edit, clear, make unique and save the states of the :ref:`SpriteFrames<class_SpriteFrames>` resource.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_get_playing_speed:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **get_playing_speed**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_get_playing_speed>`

Returns the actual playing speed of current animation or ``0`` if not playing. This speed is the :ref:`speed_scale<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_speed_scale>` property multiplied by ``custom_speed`` argument specified when calling the :ref:`play<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play>` method.

Returns a negative value if the current animation is playing backwards.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_is_playing:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_playing**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_is_playing>`

Returns ``true`` if an animation is currently playing (even if :ref:`speed_scale<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_speed_scale>` and/or ``custom_speed`` are ``0``).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_pause:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **pause**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_pause>`

Pauses the currently playing animation. The :ref:`frame<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame>` and :ref:`frame_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress>` will be kept and calling :ref:`play<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play>` or :ref:`play_backwards<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play_backwards>` without arguments will resume the animation from the current playback position.

See also :ref:`stop<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_stop>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **play**\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` = &"", custom_speed\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 1.0, from_end\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play>`

Plays the animation with key ``name``. If ``custom_speed`` is negative and ``from_end`` is ``true``, the animation will play backwards (which is equivalent to calling :ref:`play_backwards<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play_backwards>`).

If this method is called with that same animation ``name``, or with no ``name`` parameter, the assigned animation will resume playing if it was paused.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play_backwards:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **play_backwards**\ (\ name\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>` = &""\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play_backwards>`

Plays the animation with key ``name`` in reverse.

This method is a shorthand for :ref:`play<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_play>` with ``custom_speed = -1.0`` and ``from_end = true``, so see its description for more information.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_set_frame_and_progress:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **set_frame_and_progress**\ (\ frame\: :ref:`int<class_int>`, progress\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_set_frame_and_progress>`

Sets :ref:`frame<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame>` the :ref:`frame_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress>` to the given values. Unlike setting :ref:`frame<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame>`, this method does not reset the :ref:`frame_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress>` to ``0.0`` implicitly.

\ **Example:** Change the animation while keeping the same :ref:`frame<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame>` and :ref:`frame_progress<class_AnimatedSprite3D_property_frame_progress>`:


.. tabs::

 .. code-tab:: gdscript

    var current_frame = animated_sprite.get_frame()
    var current_progress = animated_sprite.get_frame_progress()
    animated_sprite.play("walk_another_skin")
    animated_sprite.set_frame_and_progress(current_frame, current_progress)



.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_stop:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **stop**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_stop>`

Stops the currently playing animation. The animation position is reset to ``0`` and the ``custom_speed`` is reset to ``1.0``. See also :ref:`pause<class_AnimatedSprite3D_method_pause>`.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
