classes/class_pckpacker.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/PCKPacker.xml.

.. _class_PCKPacker:

PCKPacker
=========

**Inherits:** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Creates packages that can be loaded into a running project.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

The **PCKPacker** is used to create packages that can be loaded into a running project using :ref:`ProjectSettings.load_resource_pack<class_ProjectSettings_method_load_resource_pack>`.


.. tabs::

 .. code-tab:: gdscript

    var packer = PCKPacker.new()
    packer.pck_start("test.pck")
    packer.add_file("res://text.txt", "text.txt")
    packer.flush()

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    var packer = new PckPacker();
    packer.PckStart("test.pck");
    packer.AddFile("res://text.txt", "text.txt");
    packer.Flush();



The above **PCKPacker** creates package ``test.pck``, then adds a file named ``text.txt`` at the root of the package.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`add_file<class_PCKPacker_method_add_file>`\ (\ pck_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, source_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, encrypt\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ )                                                                                                                  |
   +---------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`flush<class_PCKPacker_method_flush>`\ (\ verbose\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ )                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
   +---------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`pck_start<class_PCKPacker_method_pck_start>`\ (\ pck_name\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, alignment\: :ref:`int<class_int>` = 32, key\: :ref:`String<class_String>` = "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000", encrypt_directory\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |
   +---------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_PCKPacker_method_add_file:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **add_file**\ (\ pck_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, source_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, encrypt\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_PCKPacker_method_add_file>`

Adds the ``source_path`` file to the current PCK package at the ``pck_path`` internal path (should start with ``res://``).

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_PCKPacker_method_flush:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **flush**\ (\ verbose\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_PCKPacker_method_flush>`

Writes the files specified using all :ref:`add_file<class_PCKPacker_method_add_file>` calls since the last flush. If ``verbose`` is ``true``, a list of files added will be printed to the console for easier debugging.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_PCKPacker_method_pck_start:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **pck_start**\ (\ pck_name\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, alignment\: :ref:`int<class_int>` = 32, key\: :ref:`String<class_String>` = "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000", encrypt_directory\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_PCKPacker_method_pck_start>`

Creates a new PCK file with the name ``pck_name``. The ``.pck`` file extension isn't added automatically, so it should be part of ``pck_name`` (even though it's not required).

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (87f897a)

classes/class_pckpacker.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/PCKPacker.xml.

.. _class_PCKPacker:

PCKPacker
=========

**Inherits:** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Creates packages that can be loaded into a running project.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

The **PCKPacker** is used to create packages that can be loaded into a running project using :ref:`ProjectSettings.load_resource_pack()<class_ProjectSettings_method_load_resource_pack>`.


.. tabs::

 .. code-tab:: gdscript

    var packer = PCKPacker.new()
    packer.pck_start("test.pck")
    packer.add_file("res://text.txt", "text.txt")
    packer.flush()

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    var packer = new PckPacker();
    packer.PckStart("test.pck");
    packer.AddFile("res://text.txt", "text.txt");
    packer.Flush();



The above **PCKPacker** creates package ``test.pck``, then adds a file named ``text.txt`` at the root of the package.

\ **Note:** PCK is Godot's own pack file format. To create ZIP archives that can be read by any program, use :ref:`ZIPPacker<class_ZIPPacker>` instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`add_file<class_PCKPacker_method_add_file>`\ (\ target_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, source_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, encrypt\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ )                                                                                                               |
   +---------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`add_file_removal<class_PCKPacker_method_add_file_removal>`\ (\ target_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )                                                                                                                                                                                     |
   +---------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`flush<class_PCKPacker_method_flush>`\ (\ verbose\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ )                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
   +---------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` | :ref:`pck_start<class_PCKPacker_method_pck_start>`\ (\ pck_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, alignment\: :ref:`int<class_int>` = 32, key\: :ref:`String<class_String>` = "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000", encrypt_directory\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |
   +---------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_PCKPacker_method_add_file:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **add_file**\ (\ target_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, source_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, encrypt\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_PCKPacker_method_add_file>`

Adds the ``source_path`` file to the current PCK package at the ``target_path`` internal path. The ``res://`` prefix for ``target_path`` is optional and stripped internally.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_PCKPacker_method_add_file_removal:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **add_file_removal**\ (\ target_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_PCKPacker_method_add_file_removal>`

Registers a file removal of the ``target_path`` internal path to the PCK. This is mainly used for patches. If the file at this path has been loaded from a previous PCK, it will be removed. The ``res://`` prefix for ``target_path`` is optional and stripped internally.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_PCKPacker_method_flush:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **flush**\ (\ verbose\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_PCKPacker_method_flush>`

Writes the files specified using all :ref:`add_file()<class_PCKPacker_method_add_file>` calls since the last flush. If ``verbose`` is ``true``, a list of files added will be printed to the console for easier debugging.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_PCKPacker_method_pck_start:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Error<enum_@GlobalScope_Error>` **pck_start**\ (\ pck_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, alignment\: :ref:`int<class_int>` = 32, key\: :ref:`String<class_String>` = "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000", encrypt_directory\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_PCKPacker_method_pck_start>`

Creates a new PCK file at the file path ``pck_path``. The ``.pck`` file extension isn't added automatically, so it should be part of ``pck_path`` (even though it's not required).

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
