classes/class_inputmap.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/InputMap.xml.

.. _class_InputMap:

InputMap
========

**Inherits:** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A singleton that manages all :ref:`InputEventAction<class_InputEventAction>`\ s.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Manages all :ref:`InputEventAction<class_InputEventAction>` which can be created/modified from the project settings menu **Project > Project Settings > Input Map** or in code with :ref:`add_action<class_InputMap_method_add_action>` and :ref:`action_add_event<class_InputMap_method_action_add_event>`. See :ref:`Node._input<class_Node_private_method__input>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `Using InputEvent: InputMap <../tutorials/inputs/inputevent.html#inputmap>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                           | :ref:`action_add_event<class_InputMap_method_action_add_event>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ )                                                      |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                           | :ref:`action_erase_event<class_InputMap_method_action_erase_event>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ )                                                  |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                           | :ref:`action_erase_events<class_InputMap_method_action_erase_events>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )                                                                                             |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                                        | :ref:`action_get_deadzone<class_InputMap_method_action_get_deadzone>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )                                                                                             |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\] | :ref:`action_get_events<class_InputMap_method_action_get_events>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )                                                                                                 |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                          | :ref:`action_has_event<class_InputMap_method_action_has_event>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ )                                                      |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                           | :ref:`action_set_deadzone<class_InputMap_method_action_set_deadzone>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, deadzone\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )                                                       |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                           | :ref:`add_action<class_InputMap_method_add_action>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, deadzone\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 0.5\ )                                                                   |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                           | :ref:`erase_action<class_InputMap_method_erase_action>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )                                                                                                           |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                          | :ref:`event_is_action<class_InputMap_method_event_is_action>`\ (\ event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`, action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const| |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\] | :ref:`get_actions<class_InputMap_method_get_actions>`\ (\ )                                                                                                                                                           |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                          | :ref:`has_action<class_InputMap_method_has_action>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ ) |const|                                                                                                       |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                           | :ref:`load_from_project_settings<class_InputMap_method_load_from_project_settings>`\ (\ )                                                                                                                             |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_InputMap_method_action_add_event:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **action_add_event**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_action_add_event>`

Adds an :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` to an action. This :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` will trigger the action.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_action_erase_event:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **action_erase_event**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_action_erase_event>`

Removes an :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` from an action.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_action_erase_events:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **action_erase_events**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_action_erase_events>`

Removes all events from an action.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_action_get_deadzone:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **action_get_deadzone**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_action_get_deadzone>`

Returns a deadzone value for the action.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_action_get_events:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\] **action_get_events**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_action_get_events>`

Returns an array of :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ s associated with a given action.

\ **Note:** When used in the editor (e.g. a tool script or :ref:`EditorPlugin<class_EditorPlugin>`), this method will return events for the editor action. If you want to access your project's input binds from the editor, read the ``input/*`` settings from :ref:`ProjectSettings<class_ProjectSettings>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_action_has_event:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **action_has_event**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_action_has_event>`

Returns ``true`` if the action has the given :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` associated with it.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_action_set_deadzone:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **action_set_deadzone**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, deadzone\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_action_set_deadzone>`

Sets a deadzone value for the action.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_add_action:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **add_action**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, deadzone\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 0.5\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_add_action>`

Adds an empty action to the **InputMap** with a configurable ``deadzone``.

An :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` can then be added to this action with :ref:`action_add_event<class_InputMap_method_action_add_event>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_erase_action:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **erase_action**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_erase_action>`

Removes an action from the **InputMap**.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_event_is_action:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **event_is_action**\ (\ event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`, action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_event_is_action>`

Returns ``true`` if the given event is part of an existing action. This method ignores keyboard modifiers if the given :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` is not pressed (for proper release detection). See :ref:`action_has_event<class_InputMap_method_action_has_event>` if you don't want this behavior.

If ``exact_match`` is ``false``, it ignores additional input modifiers for :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>` and :ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>` events, and the direction for :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>` events.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_get_actions:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\] **get_actions**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_get_actions>`

Returns an array of all actions in the **InputMap**.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_has_action:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_action**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_has_action>`

Returns ``true`` if the **InputMap** has a registered action with the given name.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_load_from_project_settings:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **load_from_project_settings**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_load_from_project_settings>`

Clears all :ref:`InputEventAction<class_InputEventAction>` in the **InputMap** and load it anew from :ref:`ProjectSettings<class_ProjectSettings>`.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (19bb187)

classes/class_inputmap.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/InputMap.xml.

.. _class_InputMap:

InputMap
========

**Inherits:** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A singleton that manages all :ref:`InputEventAction<class_InputEventAction>`\ s.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Manages all :ref:`InputEventAction<class_InputEventAction>` which can be created/modified from the project settings menu **Project > Project Settings > Input Map** or in code with :ref:`add_action()<class_InputMap_method_add_action>` and :ref:`action_add_event()<class_InputMap_method_action_add_event>`. See :ref:`Node._input()<class_Node_private_method__input>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `Using InputEvent: InputMap <../tutorials/inputs/inputevent.html#inputmap>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                           | :ref:`action_add_event<class_InputMap_method_action_add_event>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ )                                                      |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                           | :ref:`action_erase_event<class_InputMap_method_action_erase_event>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ )                                                  |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                           | :ref:`action_erase_events<class_InputMap_method_action_erase_events>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )                                                                                             |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>`                                        | :ref:`action_get_deadzone<class_InputMap_method_action_get_deadzone>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )                                                                                             |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\] | :ref:`action_get_events<class_InputMap_method_action_get_events>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )                                                                                                 |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                          | :ref:`action_has_event<class_InputMap_method_action_has_event>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ )                                                      |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                           | :ref:`action_set_deadzone<class_InputMap_method_action_set_deadzone>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, deadzone\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )                                                       |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                           | :ref:`add_action<class_InputMap_method_add_action>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, deadzone\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 0.2\ )                                                                   |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                           | :ref:`erase_action<class_InputMap_method_erase_action>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ )                                                                                                           |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                          | :ref:`event_is_action<class_InputMap_method_event_is_action>`\ (\ event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`, action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const| |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`String<class_String>`                                      | :ref:`get_action_description<class_InputMap_method_get_action_description>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ ) |const|                                                                               |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\] | :ref:`get_actions<class_InputMap_method_get_actions>`\ (\ )                                                                                                                                                           |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                                          | :ref:`has_action<class_InputMap_method_has_action>`\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ ) |const|                                                                                                       |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                           | :ref:`load_from_project_settings<class_InputMap_method_load_from_project_settings>`\ (\ )                                                                                                                             |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_InputMap_method_action_add_event:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **action_add_event**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_action_add_event>`

Adds an :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` to an action. This :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` will trigger the action.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_action_erase_event:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **action_erase_event**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_action_erase_event>`

Removes an :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` from an action.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_action_erase_events:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **action_erase_events**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_action_erase_events>`

Removes all events from an action.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_action_get_deadzone:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`float<class_float>` **action_get_deadzone**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_action_get_deadzone>`

Returns a deadzone value for the action.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_action_get_events:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\] **action_get_events**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_action_get_events>`

Returns an array of :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ s associated with a given action.

\ **Note:** When used in the editor (e.g. a tool script or :ref:`EditorPlugin<class_EditorPlugin>`), this method will return events for the editor action. If you want to access your project's input binds from the editor, read the ``input/*`` settings from :ref:`ProjectSettings<class_ProjectSettings>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_action_has_event:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **action_has_event**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_action_has_event>`

Returns ``true`` if the action has the given :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` associated with it.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_action_set_deadzone:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **action_set_deadzone**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, deadzone\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_action_set_deadzone>`

Sets a deadzone value for the action.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_add_action:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **add_action**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, deadzone\: :ref:`float<class_float>` = 0.2\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_add_action>`

Adds an empty action to the **InputMap** with a configurable ``deadzone``.

An :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` can then be added to this action with :ref:`action_add_event()<class_InputMap_method_action_add_event>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_erase_action:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **erase_action**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_erase_action>`

Removes an action from the **InputMap**.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_event_is_action:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **event_is_action**\ (\ event\: :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>`, action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`, exact_match\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>` = false\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_event_is_action>`

Returns ``true`` if the given event is part of an existing action. This method ignores keyboard modifiers if the given :ref:`InputEvent<class_InputEvent>` is not pressed (for proper release detection). See :ref:`action_has_event()<class_InputMap_method_action_has_event>` if you don't want this behavior.

If ``exact_match`` is ``false``, it ignores additional input modifiers for :ref:`InputEventKey<class_InputEventKey>` and :ref:`InputEventMouseButton<class_InputEventMouseButton>` events, and the direction for :ref:`InputEventJoypadMotion<class_InputEventJoypadMotion>` events.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_get_action_description:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`String<class_String>` **get_action_description**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_get_action_description>`

Returns the human-readable description of the given action.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_get_actions:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\] **get_actions**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_get_actions>`

Returns an array of all actions in the **InputMap**.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_has_action:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **has_action**\ (\ action\: :ref:`StringName<class_StringName>`\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_has_action>`

Returns ``true`` if the **InputMap** has a registered action with the given name.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_InputMap_method_load_from_project_settings:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **load_from_project_settings**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_InputMap_method_load_from_project_settings>`

Clears all :ref:`InputEventAction<class_InputEventAction>` in the **InputMap** and load it anew from :ref:`ProjectSettings<class_ProjectSettings>`.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
