classes/class_texturebutton.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/TextureButton.xml.

.. _class_TextureButton:

TextureButton
=============

**Inherits:** :ref:`BaseButton<class_BaseButton>` **<** :ref:`Control<class_Control>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Texture-based button. Supports Pressed, Hover, Disabled and Focused states.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

**TextureButton** has the same functionality as :ref:`Button<class_Button>`, except it uses sprites instead of Godot's :ref:`Theme<class_Theme>` resource. It is faster to create, but it doesn't support localization like more complex :ref:`Control<class_Control>`\ s.

The "normal" state must contain a texture (:ref:`texture_normal<class_TextureButton_property_texture_normal>`); other textures are optional.

See also :ref:`BaseButton<class_BaseButton>` which contains common properties and methods associated with this node.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `3D Voxel Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2755>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | :ref:`flip_h<class_TextureButton_property_flip_h>`                           | ``false`` |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | :ref:`flip_v<class_TextureButton_property_flip_v>`                           | ``false`` |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | :ref:`ignore_texture_size<class_TextureButton_property_ignore_texture_size>` | ``false`` |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` | :ref:`stretch_mode<class_TextureButton_property_stretch_mode>`               | ``2``     |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`BitMap<class_BitMap>`                        | :ref:`texture_click_mask<class_TextureButton_property_texture_click_mask>`   |           |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`                  | :ref:`texture_disabled<class_TextureButton_property_texture_disabled>`       |           |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`                  | :ref:`texture_focused<class_TextureButton_property_texture_focused>`         |           |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`                  | :ref:`texture_hover<class_TextureButton_property_texture_hover>`             |           |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`                  | :ref:`texture_normal<class_TextureButton_property_texture_normal>`           |           |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`                  | :ref:`texture_pressed<class_TextureButton_property_texture_pressed>`         |           |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_TextureButton_StretchMode:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **StretchMode**: :ref:`🔗<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>`

.. _class_TextureButton_constant_STRETCH_SCALE:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **STRETCH_SCALE** = ``0``

Scale to fit the node's bounding rectangle.

.. _class_TextureButton_constant_STRETCH_TILE:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **STRETCH_TILE** = ``1``

Tile inside the node's bounding rectangle.

.. _class_TextureButton_constant_STRETCH_KEEP:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **STRETCH_KEEP** = ``2``

The texture keeps its original size and stays in the bounding rectangle's top-left corner.

.. _class_TextureButton_constant_STRETCH_KEEP_CENTERED:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **STRETCH_KEEP_CENTERED** = ``3``

The texture keeps its original size and stays centered in the node's bounding rectangle.

.. _class_TextureButton_constant_STRETCH_KEEP_ASPECT:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **STRETCH_KEEP_ASPECT** = ``4``

Scale the texture to fit the node's bounding rectangle, but maintain the texture's aspect ratio.

.. _class_TextureButton_constant_STRETCH_KEEP_ASPECT_CENTERED:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **STRETCH_KEEP_ASPECT_CENTERED** = ``5``

Scale the texture to fit the node's bounding rectangle, center it, and maintain its aspect ratio.

.. _class_TextureButton_constant_STRETCH_KEEP_ASPECT_COVERED:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **STRETCH_KEEP_ASPECT_COVERED** = ``6``

Scale the texture so that the shorter side fits the bounding rectangle. The other side clips to the node's limits.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_TextureButton_property_flip_h:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **flip_h** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_flip_h>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_flip_h**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_flipped_h**\ (\ )

If ``true``, texture is flipped horizontally.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_flip_v:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **flip_v** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_flip_v>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_flip_v**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_flipped_v**\ (\ )

If ``true``, texture is flipped vertically.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_ignore_texture_size:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **ignore_texture_size** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_ignore_texture_size>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_ignore_texture_size**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_ignore_texture_size**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the size of the texture won't be considered for minimum size calculation, so the **TextureButton** can be shrunk down past the texture size.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_stretch_mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **stretch_mode** = ``2`` :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_stretch_mode>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stretch_mode**\ (\ value\: :ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>`\ )
- :ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **get_stretch_mode**\ (\ )

Controls the texture's behavior when you resize the node's bounding rectangle. See the :ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` constants for available options.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_texture_click_mask:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`BitMap<class_BitMap>` **texture_click_mask** :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_texture_click_mask>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_click_mask**\ (\ value\: :ref:`BitMap<class_BitMap>`\ )
- :ref:`BitMap<class_BitMap>` **get_click_mask**\ (\ )

Pure black and white :ref:`BitMap<class_BitMap>` image to use for click detection. On the mask, white pixels represent the button's clickable area. Use it to create buttons with curved shapes.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_texture_disabled:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **texture_disabled** :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_texture_disabled>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_texture_disabled**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`\ )
- :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **get_texture_disabled**\ (\ )

Texture to display when the node is disabled. See :ref:`BaseButton.disabled<class_BaseButton_property_disabled>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_texture_focused:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **texture_focused** :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_texture_focused>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_texture_focused**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`\ )
- :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **get_texture_focused**\ (\ )

Texture to display when the node has mouse or keyboard focus. :ref:`texture_focused<class_TextureButton_property_texture_focused>` is displayed *over* the base texture, so a partially transparent texture should be used to ensure the base texture remains visible. A texture that represents an outline or an underline works well for this purpose. To disable the focus visual effect, assign a fully transparent texture of any size. Note that disabling the focus visual effect will harm keyboard/controller navigation usability, so this is not recommended for accessibility reasons.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_texture_hover:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **texture_hover** :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_texture_hover>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_texture_hover**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`\ )
- :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **get_texture_hover**\ (\ )

Texture to display when the mouse hovers the node.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_texture_normal:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **texture_normal** :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_texture_normal>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_texture_normal**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`\ )
- :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **get_texture_normal**\ (\ )

Texture to display by default, when the node is **not** in the disabled, hover or pressed state. This texture is still displayed in the focused state, with :ref:`texture_focused<class_TextureButton_property_texture_focused>` drawn on top.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_texture_pressed:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **texture_pressed** :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_texture_pressed>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_texture_pressed**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`\ )
- :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **get_texture_pressed**\ (\ )

Texture to display on mouse down over the node, if the node has keyboard focus and the player presses the Enter key or if the player presses the :ref:`BaseButton.shortcut<class_BaseButton_property_shortcut>` key.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (36d90c7)

classes/class_texturebutton.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/TextureButton.xml.

.. _class_TextureButton:

TextureButton
=============

**Inherits:** :ref:`BaseButton<class_BaseButton>` **<** :ref:`Control<class_Control>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Texture-based button. Supports Pressed, Hover, Disabled and Focused states.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

**TextureButton** has the same functionality as :ref:`Button<class_Button>`, except it uses sprites instead of Godot's :ref:`Theme<class_Theme>` resource. It is faster to create, but it doesn't support localization like more complex :ref:`Control<class_Control>`\ s.

See also :ref:`BaseButton<class_BaseButton>` which contains common properties and methods associated with this node.

\ **Note:** Setting a texture for the "normal" state (:ref:`texture_normal<class_TextureButton_property_texture_normal>`) is recommended. If :ref:`texture_normal<class_TextureButton_property_texture_normal>` is not set, the **TextureButton** will still receive input events and be clickable, but the user will not be able to see it unless they activate another one of its states with a texture assigned (e.g., hover over it to show :ref:`texture_hover<class_TextureButton_property_texture_hover>`).

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `3D Voxel Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2755>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | :ref:`flip_h<class_TextureButton_property_flip_h>`                           | ``false`` |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | :ref:`flip_v<class_TextureButton_property_flip_v>`                           | ``false`` |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`                            | :ref:`ignore_texture_size<class_TextureButton_property_ignore_texture_size>` | ``false`` |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` | :ref:`stretch_mode<class_TextureButton_property_stretch_mode>`               | ``2``     |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`BitMap<class_BitMap>`                        | :ref:`texture_click_mask<class_TextureButton_property_texture_click_mask>`   |           |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`                  | :ref:`texture_disabled<class_TextureButton_property_texture_disabled>`       |           |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`                  | :ref:`texture_focused<class_TextureButton_property_texture_focused>`         |           |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`                  | :ref:`texture_hover<class_TextureButton_property_texture_hover>`             |           |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`                  | :ref:`texture_normal<class_TextureButton_property_texture_normal>`           |           |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`                  | :ref:`texture_pressed<class_TextureButton_property_texture_pressed>`         |           |
   +----------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_TextureButton_StretchMode:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **StretchMode**: :ref:`🔗<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>`

.. _class_TextureButton_constant_STRETCH_SCALE:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **STRETCH_SCALE** = ``0``

Scale to fit the node's bounding rectangle.

.. _class_TextureButton_constant_STRETCH_TILE:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **STRETCH_TILE** = ``1``

Tile inside the node's bounding rectangle.

.. _class_TextureButton_constant_STRETCH_KEEP:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **STRETCH_KEEP** = ``2``

The texture keeps its original size and stays in the bounding rectangle's top-left corner.

.. _class_TextureButton_constant_STRETCH_KEEP_CENTERED:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **STRETCH_KEEP_CENTERED** = ``3``

The texture keeps its original size and stays centered in the node's bounding rectangle.

.. _class_TextureButton_constant_STRETCH_KEEP_ASPECT:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **STRETCH_KEEP_ASPECT** = ``4``

Scale the texture to fit the node's bounding rectangle, but maintain the texture's aspect ratio.

.. _class_TextureButton_constant_STRETCH_KEEP_ASPECT_CENTERED:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **STRETCH_KEEP_ASPECT_CENTERED** = ``5``

Scale the texture to fit the node's bounding rectangle, center it, and maintain its aspect ratio.

.. _class_TextureButton_constant_STRETCH_KEEP_ASPECT_COVERED:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **STRETCH_KEEP_ASPECT_COVERED** = ``6``

Scale the texture so that the shorter side fits the bounding rectangle. The other side clips to the node's limits.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_TextureButton_property_flip_h:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **flip_h** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_flip_h>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_flip_h**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_flipped_h**\ (\ )

If ``true``, texture is flipped horizontally.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_flip_v:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **flip_v** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_flip_v>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_flip_v**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **is_flipped_v**\ (\ )

If ``true``, texture is flipped vertically.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_ignore_texture_size:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **ignore_texture_size** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_ignore_texture_size>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_ignore_texture_size**\ (\ value\: :ref:`bool<class_bool>`\ )
- :ref:`bool<class_bool>` **get_ignore_texture_size**\ (\ )

If ``true``, the size of the texture won't be considered for minimum size calculation, so the **TextureButton** can be shrunk down past the texture size.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_stretch_mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **stretch_mode** = ``2`` :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_stretch_mode>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_stretch_mode**\ (\ value\: :ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>`\ )
- :ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` **get_stretch_mode**\ (\ )

Controls the texture's behavior when you resize the node's bounding rectangle. See the :ref:`StretchMode<enum_TextureButton_StretchMode>` constants for available options.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_texture_click_mask:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`BitMap<class_BitMap>` **texture_click_mask** :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_texture_click_mask>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_click_mask**\ (\ value\: :ref:`BitMap<class_BitMap>`\ )
- :ref:`BitMap<class_BitMap>` **get_click_mask**\ (\ )

Pure black and white :ref:`BitMap<class_BitMap>` image to use for click detection. On the mask, white pixels represent the button's clickable area. Use it to create buttons with curved shapes.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_texture_disabled:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **texture_disabled** :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_texture_disabled>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_texture_disabled**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`\ )
- :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **get_texture_disabled**\ (\ )

Texture to display when the node is disabled. See :ref:`BaseButton.disabled<class_BaseButton_property_disabled>`. If not assigned, the **TextureButton** displays :ref:`texture_normal<class_TextureButton_property_texture_normal>` instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_texture_focused:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **texture_focused** :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_texture_focused>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_texture_focused**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`\ )
- :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **get_texture_focused**\ (\ )

Texture to *overlay on the base texture* when the node has mouse or keyboard focus. Because :ref:`texture_focused<class_TextureButton_property_texture_focused>` is displayed on top of the base texture, a partially transparent texture should be used to ensure the base texture remains visible. A texture that represents an outline or an underline works well for this purpose. To disable the focus visual effect, assign a fully transparent texture of any size. Note that disabling the focus visual effect will harm keyboard/controller navigation usability, so this is not recommended for accessibility reasons.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_texture_hover:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **texture_hover** :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_texture_hover>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_texture_hover**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`\ )
- :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **get_texture_hover**\ (\ )

Texture to display when the mouse hovers over the node. If not assigned, the **TextureButton** displays :ref:`texture_normal<class_TextureButton_property_texture_normal>` instead when hovered over.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_texture_normal:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **texture_normal** :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_texture_normal>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_texture_normal**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`\ )
- :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **get_texture_normal**\ (\ )

Texture to display by default, when the node is **not** in the disabled, hover or pressed state. This texture is still displayed in the focused state, with :ref:`texture_focused<class_TextureButton_property_texture_focused>` drawn on top.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_TextureButton_property_texture_pressed:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **texture_pressed** :ref:`🔗<class_TextureButton_property_texture_pressed>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_texture_pressed**\ (\ value\: :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>`\ )
- :ref:`Texture2D<class_Texture2D>` **get_texture_pressed**\ (\ )

Texture to display on mouse down over the node, if the node has keyboard focus and the player presses the Enter key or if the player presses the :ref:`BaseButton.shortcut<class_BaseButton_property_shortcut>` key. If not assigned, the **TextureButton** displays :ref:`texture_hover<class_TextureButton_property_texture_hover>` instead when pressed.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
