classes/class_scripteditor.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/ScriptEditor.xml.

.. _class_ScriptEditor:

ScriptEditor
============

**Inherits:** :ref:`PanelContainer<class_PanelContainer>` **<** :ref:`Container<class_Container>` **<** :ref:`Control<class_Control>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Godot editor's script editor.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Godot editor's script editor.

\ **Note:** This class shouldn't be instantiated directly. Instead, access the singleton using :ref:`EditorInterface.get_script_editor<class_EditorInterface_method_get_script_editor>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`ScriptEditorBase<class_ScriptEditorBase>`                              | :ref:`get_current_editor<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_current_editor>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                   |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Script<class_Script>`                                                  | :ref:`get_current_script<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_current_script>`\ (\ )                                                                                                           |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`ScriptEditorBase<class_ScriptEditorBase>`\] | :ref:`get_open_script_editors<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_open_script_editors>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                         |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`Script<class_Script>`\]                     | :ref:`get_open_scripts<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_open_scripts>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                       |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                                       | :ref:`goto_help<class_ScriptEditor_method_goto_help>`\ (\ topic\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )                                                                                        |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                                       | :ref:`goto_line<class_ScriptEditor_method_goto_line>`\ (\ line_number\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )                                                                                        |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                                       | :ref:`open_script_create_dialog<class_ScriptEditor_method_open_script_create_dialog>`\ (\ base_name\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, base_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )           |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                                       | :ref:`register_syntax_highlighter<class_ScriptEditor_method_register_syntax_highlighter>`\ (\ syntax_highlighter\: :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>`\ )     |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                                       | :ref:`unregister_syntax_highlighter<class_ScriptEditor_method_unregister_syntax_highlighter>`\ (\ syntax_highlighter\: :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>`\ ) |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_ScriptEditor_signal_editor_script_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**editor_script_changed**\ (\ script\: :ref:`Script<class_Script>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_signal_editor_script_changed>`

Emitted when user changed active script. Argument is a freshly activated :ref:`Script<class_Script>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_signal_script_close:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**script_close**\ (\ script\: :ref:`Script<class_Script>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_signal_script_close>`

Emitted when editor is about to close the active script. Argument is a :ref:`Script<class_Script>` that is going to be closed.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_get_current_editor:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`ScriptEditorBase<class_ScriptEditorBase>` **get_current_editor**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_current_editor>`

Returns the :ref:`ScriptEditorBase<class_ScriptEditorBase>` object that the user is currently editing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_get_current_script:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Script<class_Script>` **get_current_script**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_current_script>`

Returns a :ref:`Script<class_Script>` that is currently active in editor.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_get_open_script_editors:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`ScriptEditorBase<class_ScriptEditorBase>`\] **get_open_script_editors**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_open_script_editors>`

Returns an array with all :ref:`ScriptEditorBase<class_ScriptEditorBase>` objects which are currently open in editor.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_get_open_scripts:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`Script<class_Script>`\] **get_open_scripts**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_open_scripts>`

Returns an array with all :ref:`Script<class_Script>` objects which are currently open in editor.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_goto_help:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **goto_help**\ (\ topic\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_goto_help>`

Opens help for the given topic. The ``topic`` is an encoded string that controls which class, method, constant, signal, annotation, property, or theme item should be focused.

The supported ``topic`` formats include ``class_name:class``, ``class_method:class:method``, ``class_constant:class:constant``, ``class_signal:class:signal``, ``class_annotation:class:@annotation``, ``class_property:class:property``, and ``class_theme_item:class:item``, where ``class`` is the class name, ``method`` is the method name, ``constant`` is the constant name, ``signal`` is the signal name, ``annotation`` is the annotation name, ``property`` is the property name, and ``item`` is the theme item.

\ **Examples:**\ 

::

    # Shows help for the Node class.
    class_name:Node
    # Shows help for the global min function.
    # Global objects are accessible in the `@GlobalScope` namespace, shown here.
    class_method:@GlobalScope:min
    # Shows help for get_viewport in the Node class.
    class_method:Node:get_viewport
    # Shows help for the Input constant MOUSE_BUTTON_MIDDLE.
    class_constant:Input:MOUSE_BUTTON_MIDDLE
    # Shows help for the BaseButton signal pressed.
    class_signal:BaseButton:pressed
    # Shows help for the CanvasItem property visible.
    class_property:CanvasItem:visible
    # Shows help for the GDScript annotation export.
    # Annotations should be prefixed with the `@` symbol in the descriptor, as shown here.
    class_annotation:@GDScript:@export
    # Shows help for the GraphNode theme item named panel_selected.
    class_theme_item:GraphNode:panel_selected

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_goto_line:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **goto_line**\ (\ line_number\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_goto_line>`

Goes to the specified line in the current script.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_open_script_create_dialog:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **open_script_create_dialog**\ (\ base_name\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, base_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_open_script_create_dialog>`

Opens the script create dialog. The script will extend ``base_name``. The file extension can be omitted from ``base_path``. It will be added based on the selected scripting language.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_register_syntax_highlighter:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **register_syntax_highlighter**\ (\ syntax_highlighter\: :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_register_syntax_highlighter>`

Registers the :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>` to the editor, the :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>` will be available on all open scripts.

\ **Note:** Does not apply to scripts that are already opened.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_unregister_syntax_highlighter:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **unregister_syntax_highlighter**\ (\ syntax_highlighter\: :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_unregister_syntax_highlighter>`

Unregisters the :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>` from the editor.

\ **Note:** The :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>` will still be applied to scripts that are already opened.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (dc5f1b7)

classes/class_scripteditor.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/ScriptEditor.xml.

.. _class_ScriptEditor:

ScriptEditor
============

**Inherits:** :ref:`PanelContainer<class_PanelContainer>` **<** :ref:`Container<class_Container>` **<** :ref:`Control<class_Control>` **<** :ref:`CanvasItem<class_CanvasItem>` **<** :ref:`Node<class_Node>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Godot editor's script editor.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Godot editor's script editor.

\ **Note:** This class shouldn't be instantiated directly. Instead, access the singleton using :ref:`EditorInterface.get_script_editor<class_EditorInterface_method_get_script_editor>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`PackedStringArray<class_PackedStringArray>`                            | :ref:`get_breakpoints<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_breakpoints>`\ (\ )                                                                                                                 |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`ScriptEditorBase<class_ScriptEditorBase>`                              | :ref:`get_current_editor<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_current_editor>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                   |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Script<class_Script>`                                                  | :ref:`get_current_script<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_current_script>`\ (\ )                                                                                                           |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`ScriptEditorBase<class_ScriptEditorBase>`\] | :ref:`get_open_script_editors<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_open_script_editors>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                         |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`Script<class_Script>`\]                     | :ref:`get_open_scripts<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_open_scripts>`\ (\ ) |const|                                                                                                       |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                                       | :ref:`goto_help<class_ScriptEditor_method_goto_help>`\ (\ topic\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )                                                                                        |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                                       | :ref:`goto_line<class_ScriptEditor_method_goto_line>`\ (\ line_number\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ )                                                                                        |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                                       | :ref:`open_script_create_dialog<class_ScriptEditor_method_open_script_create_dialog>`\ (\ base_name\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, base_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ )           |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                                       | :ref:`register_syntax_highlighter<class_ScriptEditor_method_register_syntax_highlighter>`\ (\ syntax_highlighter\: :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>`\ )     |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                                       | :ref:`unregister_syntax_highlighter<class_ScriptEditor_method_unregister_syntax_highlighter>`\ (\ syntax_highlighter\: :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>`\ ) |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | |void|                                                                       | :ref:`update_docs_from_script<class_ScriptEditor_method_update_docs_from_script>`\ (\ script\: :ref:`Script<class_Script>`\ )                                                           |
   +------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Signals
-------

.. _class_ScriptEditor_signal_editor_script_changed:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**editor_script_changed**\ (\ script\: :ref:`Script<class_Script>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_signal_editor_script_changed>`

Emitted when user changed active script. Argument is a freshly activated :ref:`Script<class_Script>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_signal_script_close:

.. rst-class:: classref-signal

**script_close**\ (\ script\: :ref:`Script<class_Script>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_signal_script_close>`

Emitted when editor is about to close the active script. Argument is a :ref:`Script<class_Script>` that is going to be closed.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_get_breakpoints:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`PackedStringArray<class_PackedStringArray>` **get_breakpoints**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_breakpoints>`

Returns array of breakpoints.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_get_current_editor:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`ScriptEditorBase<class_ScriptEditorBase>` **get_current_editor**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_current_editor>`

Returns the :ref:`ScriptEditorBase<class_ScriptEditorBase>` object that the user is currently editing.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_get_current_script:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Script<class_Script>` **get_current_script**\ (\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_current_script>`

Returns a :ref:`Script<class_Script>` that is currently active in editor.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_get_open_script_editors:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`ScriptEditorBase<class_ScriptEditorBase>`\] **get_open_script_editors**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_open_script_editors>`

Returns an array with all :ref:`ScriptEditorBase<class_ScriptEditorBase>` objects which are currently open in editor.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_get_open_scripts:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Array<class_Array>`\[:ref:`Script<class_Script>`\] **get_open_scripts**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_get_open_scripts>`

Returns an array with all :ref:`Script<class_Script>` objects which are currently open in editor.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_goto_help:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **goto_help**\ (\ topic\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_goto_help>`

Opens help for the given topic. The ``topic`` is an encoded string that controls which class, method, constant, signal, annotation, property, or theme item should be focused.

The supported ``topic`` formats include ``class_name:class``, ``class_method:class:method``, ``class_constant:class:constant``, ``class_signal:class:signal``, ``class_annotation:class:@annotation``, ``class_property:class:property``, and ``class_theme_item:class:item``, where ``class`` is the class name, ``method`` is the method name, ``constant`` is the constant name, ``signal`` is the signal name, ``annotation`` is the annotation name, ``property`` is the property name, and ``item`` is the theme item.

::

    # Shows help for the Node class.
    class_name:Node
    # Shows help for the global min function.
    # Global objects are accessible in the `@GlobalScope` namespace, shown here.
    class_method:@GlobalScope:min
    # Shows help for get_viewport in the Node class.
    class_method:Node:get_viewport
    # Shows help for the Input constant MOUSE_BUTTON_MIDDLE.
    class_constant:Input:MOUSE_BUTTON_MIDDLE
    # Shows help for the BaseButton signal pressed.
    class_signal:BaseButton:pressed
    # Shows help for the CanvasItem property visible.
    class_property:CanvasItem:visible
    # Shows help for the GDScript annotation export.
    # Annotations should be prefixed with the `@` symbol in the descriptor, as shown here.
    class_annotation:@GDScript:@export
    # Shows help for the GraphNode theme item named panel_selected.
    class_theme_item:GraphNode:panel_selected

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_goto_line:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **goto_line**\ (\ line_number\: :ref:`int<class_int>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_goto_line>`

Goes to the specified line in the current script.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_open_script_create_dialog:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **open_script_create_dialog**\ (\ base_name\: :ref:`String<class_String>`, base_path\: :ref:`String<class_String>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_open_script_create_dialog>`

Opens the script create dialog. The script will extend ``base_name``. The file extension can be omitted from ``base_path``. It will be added based on the selected scripting language.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_register_syntax_highlighter:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **register_syntax_highlighter**\ (\ syntax_highlighter\: :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_register_syntax_highlighter>`

Registers the :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>` to the editor, the :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>` will be available on all open scripts.

\ **Note:** Does not apply to scripts that are already opened.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_unregister_syntax_highlighter:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **unregister_syntax_highlighter**\ (\ syntax_highlighter\: :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_unregister_syntax_highlighter>`

Unregisters the :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>` from the editor.

\ **Note:** The :ref:`EditorSyntaxHighlighter<class_EditorSyntaxHighlighter>` will still be applied to scripts that are already opened.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ScriptEditor_method_update_docs_from_script:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

|void| **update_docs_from_script**\ (\ script\: :ref:`Script<class_Script>`\ ) :ref:`🔗<class_ScriptEditor_method_update_docs_from_script>`

Updates the documentation for the given ``script`` if the script's documentation is currently open.

\ **Note:** This should be called whenever the script is changed to keep the open documentation state up to date.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
