classes/class_audioeffectstereoenhance.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/AudioEffectStereoEnhance.xml.

.. _class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance:

AudioEffectStereoEnhance
========================

**Inherits:** :ref:`AudioEffect<class_AudioEffect>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

An audio effect that can be used to adjust the intensity of stereo panning.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

An audio effect that can be used to adjust the intensity of stereo panning.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Audio buses <../tutorials/audio/audio_buses>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`pan_pullout<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_pan_pullout>`         | ``1.0`` |
   +---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`surround<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_surround>`               | ``0.0`` |
   +---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`time_pullout_ms<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_time_pullout_ms>` | ``0.0`` |
   +---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_pan_pullout:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **pan_pullout** = ``1.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_pan_pullout>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_pan_pullout**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_pan_pullout**\ (\ )

Values greater than 1.0 increase intensity of any panning on audio passing through this effect, whereas values less than 1.0 will decrease the panning intensity. A value of 0.0 will downmix audio to mono.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_surround:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **surround** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_surround>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_surround**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_surround**\ (\ )

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this property. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_time_pullout_ms:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **time_pullout_ms** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_time_pullout_ms>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_time_pullout**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_time_pullout**\ (\ )

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this property. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (893bbdf)

classes/class_audioeffectstereoenhance.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/AudioEffectStereoEnhance.xml.

.. _class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance:

AudioEffectStereoEnhance
========================

**Inherits:** :ref:`AudioEffect<class_AudioEffect>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

An audio effect that can be used to adjust the intensity of stereo panning.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

An audio effect that can be used to adjust the intensity of stereo panning.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Audio buses <../tutorials/audio/audio_buses>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`pan_pullout<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_pan_pullout>`         | ``1.0`` |
   +---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`surround<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_surround>`               | ``0.0`` |
   +---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`time_pullout_ms<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_time_pullout_ms>` | ``0.0`` |
   +---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_pan_pullout:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **pan_pullout** = ``1.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_pan_pullout>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_pan_pullout**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_pan_pullout**\ (\ )

Amplifies the difference between stereo channels, increasing or decreasing existing panning. A value of 0.0 will downmix stereo to mono. Does not affect a mono signal.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_surround:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **surround** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_surround>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_surround**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_surround**\ (\ )

Widens sound stage through phase shifting in conjunction with :ref:`time_pullout_ms<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_time_pullout_ms>`. Just pans sound to the left channel if :ref:`time_pullout_ms<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_time_pullout_ms>` is 0.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_time_pullout_ms:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **time_pullout_ms** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_time_pullout_ms>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_time_pullout**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_time_pullout**\ (\ )

Widens sound stage through phase shifting in conjunction with :ref:`surround<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_surround>`. Just delays the right channel if :ref:`surround<class_AudioEffectStereoEnhance_property_surround>` is 0.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
