classes/class_audioeffectamplify.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/AudioEffectAmplify.xml.

.. _class_AudioEffectAmplify:

AudioEffectAmplify
==================

**Inherits:** :ref:`AudioEffect<class_AudioEffect>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Adds an amplifying audio effect to an audio bus.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Increases or decreases the volume being routed through the audio bus.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Audio buses <../tutorials/audio/audio_buses>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`volume_db<class_AudioEffectAmplify_property_volume_db>` | ``0.0`` |
   +---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+---------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_AudioEffectAmplify_property_volume_db:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **volume_db** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioEffectAmplify_property_volume_db>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_volume_db**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_volume_db**\ (\ )

Amount of amplification in decibels. Positive values make the sound louder, negative values make it quieter. Value can range from -80 to 24.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (b15b24b)

classes/class_audioeffectamplify.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/AudioEffectAmplify.xml.

.. _class_AudioEffectAmplify:

AudioEffectAmplify
==================

**Inherits:** :ref:`AudioEffect<class_AudioEffect>` **<** :ref:`Resource<class_Resource>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Adds an amplifying audio effect to an audio bus.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

Increases or decreases the volume being routed through the audio bus.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Audio buses <../tutorials/audio/audio_buses>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`volume_db<class_AudioEffectAmplify_property_volume_db>`         | ``0.0`` |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`volume_linear<class_AudioEffectAmplify_property_volume_linear>` |         |
   +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_AudioEffectAmplify_property_volume_db:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **volume_db** = ``0.0`` :ref:`🔗<class_AudioEffectAmplify_property_volume_db>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_volume_db**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_volume_db**\ (\ )

Amount of amplification in decibels. Positive values make the sound louder, negative values make it quieter. Value can range from -80 to 24.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_AudioEffectAmplify_property_volume_linear:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **volume_linear** :ref:`🔗<class_AudioEffectAmplify_property_volume_linear>`

.. rst-class:: classref-property-setget

- |void| **set_volume_linear**\ (\ value\: :ref:`float<class_float>`\ )
- :ref:`float<class_float>` **get_volume_linear**\ (\ )

Amount of amplification as a linear value.

\ **Note:** This member modifies :ref:`volume_db<class_AudioEffectAmplify_property_volume_db>` for convenience. The returned value is equivalent to the result of :ref:`@GlobalScope.db_to_linear<class_@GlobalScope_method_db_to_linear>` on :ref:`volume_db<class_AudioEffectAmplify_property_volume_db>`. Setting this member is equivalent to setting :ref:`volume_db<class_AudioEffectAmplify_property_volume_db>` to the result of :ref:`@GlobalScope.linear_to_db<class_@GlobalScope_method_linear_to_db>` on a value.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
