classes/class_resourceimporterwav.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/ResourceImporterWAV.xml.

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV:

ResourceImporterWAV
===================

**Inherits:** :ref:`ResourceImporter<class_ResourceImporter>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Imports a WAV audio file for playback.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

WAV is an uncompressed format, which can provide higher quality compared to Ogg Vorbis and MP3. It also has the lowest CPU cost to decode. This means high numbers of WAV sounds can be played at the same time, even on low-end deviceS.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Importing audio samples <../tutorials/assets_pipeline/importing_audio_samples>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`     | :ref:`compress/mode<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_compress/mode>`         | ``0``     |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`     | :ref:`edit/loop_begin<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_begin>`     | ``0``     |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`     | :ref:`edit/loop_end<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_end>`         | ``-1``    |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`     | :ref:`edit/loop_mode<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_mode>`       | ``0``     |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`   | :ref:`edit/normalize<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/normalize>`       | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`   | :ref:`edit/trim<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/trim>`                 | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`   | :ref:`force/8_bit<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/8_bit>`             | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`   | :ref:`force/max_rate<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate>`       | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`force/max_rate_hz<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate_hz>` | ``44100`` |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`   | :ref:`force/mono<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/mono>`               | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_compress/mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **compress/mode** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_compress/mode>`

The compression mode to use on import.

\ **Disabled:** Imports audio data without any compression. This results in the highest possible quality.

\ **RAM (Ima-ADPCM):** Performs fast lossy compression on import. Low CPU cost, but quality is noticeably decreased compared to Ogg Vorbis or even MP3.

\ **QOA (`Quite OK Audio <https://qoaformat.org/>`__):** Performs lossy compression on import. CPU cost is slightly higher than IMA-ADPCM, but quality is much higher.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_begin:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **edit/loop_begin** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_begin>`

The begin loop point to use when :ref:`edit/loop_mode<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_mode>` is **Forward**, **Ping-Pong**, or **Backward**. This is set in samples after the beginning of the audio file.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_end:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **edit/loop_end** = ``-1`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_end>`

The end loop point to use when :ref:`edit/loop_mode<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_mode>` is **Forward**, **Ping-Pong**, or **Backward**. This is set in samples after the beginning of the audio file. A value of ``-1`` uses the end of the audio file as the end loop point.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **edit/loop_mode** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_mode>`

Controls how audio should loop. This is automatically read from the WAV metadata on import.

\ **Disabled:** Don't loop audio, even if metadata indicates the file should be played back looping.

\ **Forward:** Standard audio looping.

\ **Ping-Pong:** Play audio forward until it's done playing, then play it backward and repeat. This is similar to mirrored texture repeat, but for audio.

\ **Backward:** Play audio in reverse and loop back to the end when done playing.

\ **Note:** In :ref:`AudioStreamPlayer<class_AudioStreamPlayer>`, the :ref:`AudioStreamPlayer.finished<class_AudioStreamPlayer_signal_finished>` signal won't be emitted for looping audio when it reaches the end of the audio file, as the audio will keep playing indefinitely.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/normalize:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **edit/normalize** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/normalize>`

If ``true``, normalize the audio volume so that its peak volume is equal to 0 dB. When enabled, normalization will make audio sound louder depending on its original peak volume.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/trim:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **edit/trim** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/trim>`

If ``true``, automatically trim the beginning and end of the audio if it's lower than -50 dB after normalization (see :ref:`edit/normalize<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/normalize>`). This prevents having files with silence at the beginning or end, which increases their size unnecessarily and adds latency to the moment they are played back. A fade-in/fade-out period of 500 samples is also used during trimming to avoid audible pops.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/8_bit:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **force/8_bit** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/8_bit>`

If ``true``, forces the imported audio to use 8-bit quantization if the source file is 16-bit or higher.

Enabling this is generally not recommended, as 8-bit quantization decreases audio quality significantly. If you need smaller file sizes, consider using Ogg Vorbis or MP3 audio instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **force/max_rate** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate>`

If set to a value greater than ``0``, forces the audio's sample rate to be reduced to a value lower than or equal to the value specified in :ref:`force/max_rate_hz<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate_hz>`.

This can decrease file size noticeably on certain sounds, without impacting quality depending on the actual sound's contents. See `Best practices <../tutorials/assets_pipeline/importing_audio_samples.html#doc-importing-audio-samples-best-practices>`__ for more information.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate_hz:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **force/max_rate_hz** = ``44100`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate_hz>`

The frequency to limit the imported audio sample to (in Hz). Only effective if :ref:`force/max_rate<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate>` is ``true``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/mono:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **force/mono** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/mono>`

If ``true``, forces the imported audio to be mono if the source file is stereo. This decreases the file size by 50% by merging the two channels into one.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (394508d)

classes/class_resourceimporterwav.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/ResourceImporterWAV.xml.

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV:

ResourceImporterWAV
===================

**Inherits:** :ref:`ResourceImporter<class_ResourceImporter>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Imports a WAV audio file for playback.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

WAV is an uncompressed format, which can provide higher quality compared to Ogg Vorbis and MP3. It also has the lowest CPU cost to decode. This means high numbers of WAV sounds can be played at the same time, even on low-end devices.

By default, Godot imports WAV files using the lossy Quite OK Audio compression. You may change this by setting the :ref:`compress/mode<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_compress/mode>` property.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- :doc:`Importing audio samples <../tutorials/assets_pipeline/importing_audio_samples>`

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Properties
----------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`     | :ref:`compress/mode<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_compress/mode>`         | ``2``     |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`     | :ref:`edit/loop_begin<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_begin>`     | ``0``     |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`     | :ref:`edit/loop_end<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_end>`         | ``-1``    |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`int<class_int>`     | :ref:`edit/loop_mode<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_mode>`       | ``0``     |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`   | :ref:`edit/normalize<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/normalize>`       | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`   | :ref:`edit/trim<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/trim>`                 | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`   | :ref:`force/8_bit<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/8_bit>`             | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`   | :ref:`force/max_rate<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate>`       | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`float<class_float>` | :ref:`force/max_rate_hz<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate_hz>` | ``44100`` |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
   | :ref:`bool<class_bool>`   | :ref:`force/mono<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/mono>`               | ``false`` |
   +---------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Property Descriptions
---------------------

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_compress/mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **compress/mode** = ``2`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_compress/mode>`

The compression mode to use on import.

- **PCM (Uncompressed):** Imports audio data without any form of compression, preserving the highest possible quality. It has the lowest CPU cost, but the highest memory usage.

- **IMA ADPCM:** Applies fast, lossy compression during import, noticeably decreasing the quality, but with low CPU cost and memory usage. Does not support seeking and only Forward loop mode is supported.

- **\ `Quite OK Audio <https://qoaformat.org/>`__:** Also applies lossy compression on import, having a slightly higher CPU cost compared to IMA ADPCM, but much higher quality and the lowest memory usage.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_begin:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **edit/loop_begin** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_begin>`

The begin loop point to use when :ref:`edit/loop_mode<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_mode>` is **Forward**, **Ping-Pong**, or **Backward**. This is set in samples after the beginning of the audio file.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_end:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **edit/loop_end** = ``-1`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_end>`

The end loop point to use when :ref:`edit/loop_mode<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_mode>` is **Forward**, **Ping-Pong**, or **Backward**. This is set in samples after the beginning of the audio file. A value of ``-1`` uses the end of the audio file as the end loop point.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_mode:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`int<class_int>` **edit/loop_mode** = ``0`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_mode>`

Controls how audio should loop.

- **Detect From WAV:** Uses loop information from the WAV metadata.

- **Disabled:** Don't loop audio, even if the metadata indicates the file playback should loop.

- **Forward:** Standard audio looping. Plays the audio forward from the beginning to :ref:`edit/loop_end<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_end>`, then returns to :ref:`edit/loop_begin<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_begin>` and repeats.

- **Ping-Pong:** Plays the audio forward until :ref:`edit/loop_end<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_end>`, then backwards to :ref:`edit/loop_begin<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_begin>`, repeating this cycle.

- **Backward:** Plays the audio backwards from :ref:`edit/loop_end<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_end>` to :ref:`edit/loop_begin<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/loop_begin>`, then repeats.

\ **Note:** In :ref:`AudioStreamPlayer<class_AudioStreamPlayer>`, the :ref:`AudioStreamPlayer.finished<class_AudioStreamPlayer_signal_finished>` signal won't be emitted for looping audio when it reaches the end of the audio file, as the audio will keep playing indefinitely.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/normalize:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **edit/normalize** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/normalize>`

If ``true``, normalize the audio volume so that its peak volume is equal to 0 dB. When enabled, normalization will make audio sound louder depending on its original peak volume.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/trim:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **edit/trim** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/trim>`

If ``true``, automatically trim the beginning and end of the audio if it's lower than -50 dB after normalization (see :ref:`edit/normalize<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_edit/normalize>`). This prevents having files with silence at the beginning or end, which increases their size unnecessarily and adds latency to the moment they are played back. A fade-in/fade-out period of 500 samples is also used during trimming to avoid audible pops.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/8_bit:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **force/8_bit** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/8_bit>`

If ``true``, forces the imported audio to use 8-bit quantization if the source file is 16-bit or higher.

Enabling this is generally not recommended, as 8-bit quantization decreases audio quality significantly. If you need smaller file sizes, consider using Ogg Vorbis or MP3 audio instead.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **force/max_rate** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate>`

If set to a value greater than ``0``, forces the audio's sample rate to be reduced to a value lower than or equal to the value specified in :ref:`force/max_rate_hz<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate_hz>`.

This can decrease file size noticeably on certain sounds, without impacting quality depending on the actual sound's contents. See `Best practices <../tutorials/assets_pipeline/importing_audio_samples.html#doc-importing-audio-samples-best-practices>`__ for more information.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate_hz:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`float<class_float>` **force/max_rate_hz** = ``44100`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate_hz>`

The frequency to limit the imported audio sample to (in Hz). Only effective if :ref:`force/max_rate<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/max_rate>` is ``true``.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/mono:

.. rst-class:: classref-property

:ref:`bool<class_bool>` **force/mono** = ``false`` :ref:`🔗<class_ResourceImporterWAV_property_force/mono>`

If ``true``, forces the imported audio to be mono if the source file is stereo. This decreases the file size by 50% by merging the two channels into one.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
